Before she leaves the country for a year on the esteemed Watson Fellowship, Hendrix visual artist Adaja Cooper was kind enough to sit with me for a half hour and discuss her fellowship, artistic inspirations, and the role of public art. 


So first off, tell me about your forthcoming Watson project. What are you doing?


I painted a mural a couple years ago called "Ain't I A Woman," on 7th Street in Little Rock. It was intended to uplift black women worldwide who had been adversely affected by institutional racism, in criminal, medical, and various other contexts. After making the mural, it was completely vandalized twice. After I painted it the first time, a few days later, it was painted over. We had to scrub and peel the paint off. Then, the second time, they used a latex paint, so we were fortunately again able to peel it off. Now it's completely restored, and hasn't been touched since. I really can't wrap my head around why someone would do that. I don't know who could possibly have the free time, energy, and balls to deface something publicly. It was probably the timing, where the nation was at that time. It was the Summer of Reckoning, so there was a lot of protests going on not far from where the mural was. It's funny, because I didn't have the chance to go to any of the protests, because of COVID, and all that came with it. The mural was kind of like my form of protest. Seeing the impact of my words on a community and how, in spite of the vitriol, the mural remains up, has been a great source of hope. It's a form of preservation, and it kind of captured that moment [the summer of 2020] in history. My Watson project was inspired by this. It deals with murals depicting or resulting from political events and social movements, and seeing how they impact and serve as a source of cultural preservation in the communities they depict. I'll be visiting England to look at some of Banksy's stuff, and then Belfast. After that I'll be going to Italy, where there are a lot of cool, contemporary murals, and then I'll be visiting Mexico, which has a very rich history of public art.


How has Hendrix, through undergrad and AGS, helped you to hone your artistic skills, identity, and vision?

AGS [Arkansas Governor's School, a state-funded program for Arkansas high-school juniors that, up until 2018, was held every summer at Hendrix] definitely gave me the technical skills to paint, and generally helped me to begin turning ideas into something physical. Hendrix's Art Department has really helped me to combine both of my passions together. It's shown me that I'm not just a painter, but someone with a voice. Hendrix has engaged me within its community, with my involvement with the NAACP, Art Club, and Revolutionary Reads. It's helped me find the intersection of activism and art, which I hope to explore further with my Watson Fellowship.

How does public art persist as a beacon in the face of renegade adversity?

Hmm. I've seen much more murals popping up around Conway and Little Rock over the past few years. The crucial, in my eyes, defining thing about a mural is that once you create it, it's kind of out of your hands, becoming property of the city or community it depicts. And it's kind of up to the community to take care of it, and to maintain the memories or traditions represented. Because of that, you have to take what you paint very seriously in murals, moreso than usual, and use the space for good. If you go down to Seventh Street, and look at all the murals, they each have different points of view, but the essential message is very clear. It's all in the interest of peace and justice, and making sure that the world is becoming a better place. 


  

First off, tell me about your forthcoming Watson project. What's going on?


I painted a mural a couple years ago called "Ain't I A Woman." It was intended to educate uplift black women worldwide who had been adversely affected by institutional racism in criminal, medical, and various other contexts. After making the mural, it was completely vandalized twice. We had to scrub and peel the paint off, the first time. Then, the second time, they used a latex paint, so we were fortunately again able to peel it off. Now it's completely restored hasn't been touched since. I really can't wrap my head around why someone would do that. I don't know who could possibly have the free time, energy, and balls to deface a mural. It was probably the timing, where the nation was at that time. It was the Summer of Reckoning [2020], so there was a lot of protests going on not far from where the mural was. It's funny, because I didn't have the chance to go to any of the protests, because of COVID, and all that came with it. The mural was kind of like my form of protest.Seeing the impact of my words on a community and how, in spite of the vitriol, the mural remains up. It's a form of preservation, and it kind of captured that moment [the summer of 2020] in history. My Watson project was inspired by this. It deals with murals depicting or resulting from political events and social movements, and seeing how they impact and serve as a source of cultural preservation in the communities they depict. I'll be visiting England to look at some of Banksy's stuff, and then Belfast. After that I'll be going to Italy, where there are a lot of cool, contemporary murals, and then I'll be visiting Mexico, which has a very rich history of public art.


How has Hendrix, through undergrad and AGS, helped you to hone your artistic skills, identity, and vision?

AGS [Arkansas Governor's School, a state-funded program for Arkansas high-school juniors that, up until 2018, was held every summer at Hendrix] definitely gave me the technical skills to paint, and generally helped me to begin turning ideas into something physical. Hendrix's Art Department has really helped me to combine both of my passions together. It's shown me that I'm not just a painter, but someone with a voice. Hendrix has engaged me within its community, with my involvement with the NAACP, Art Club, and Revolutionary Reads. It's helped me find like the intersection point of activism and art, which I hope to explore further with my Watson Fellowship.


How does public art persist as a beacon in the face of renegade adversity?


Yeah. Trumpers? Yeah, that's a good question. Because, I've seen much more murals popping up around Conway and Little Rock over the past few years. The crucial, in my eyes, defining thing about muralism is that once you create it, it's kind of out of your hands, it becomes property of the city or community it depicts. And it's kind of up to the community to take care of it, and to maintain an interpretive, storytelling aspect. Because of that, you have to take what you paint very seriously in murals, moreso than usual, and use the space for good. So, if go to Seventh Street, and you see all the murals, they all have different points of view, but the essential message is very clear. It's all in the interest of peace and justice, and making sure that the world is becoming a better place. 

This might be a little pedantic, but all of the like, public art that you're visiting, it's all like, not owned by anyone. Just serving community hands.
Yeah. So yeah, 

All of the art on my trip will be public. Most will be  there are a few in Mexico that are commissioned by the government, the government, because like Mexican muralism, and, but they're still centered around like, unity and uplifting like a nation. So they're all like, publicly
next


How has your business minor informed your artistic career? Or how do you intend for it to?

Honestly, my mom really thought it was a good idea. It helps with ensuring I'm not too far in the red - supplies cost a lot of money. It also came in handy with the Watson, when I had to make a budget for the entire year. Also, it's good to be a well rounded person, keeping my math skills up to date. I know how to count still. It can be intense to get wrapped up in a creative project, it's helpful to have a little break and do something that's - well, not practical, but just concrete.

Tell me about your purely aesthetic inspirations. Do you take more inspiration from the world around you, or from other existing art?

So, my favorite color is orange. Any type of orange really, pastel, blood, Hendrix, neon, I like all types of oranges. It comes up a lot in my work, because of that, and also because orange is one of the base colors for painting Black people. The compliment to orange is blue, so naturally, I use a lot of blue too. Aside from that, I'm a figurative painter. I love to paint people in different positions and use their positions to tell a story. 

Most of the time, it's internal, I pull from memories. I try to draw memories first, and then try to replicate it through a photo, and then try and pick the photo. So that process is something I've definitely explored this year, but also take a lot of inspiration from candy Wiley, and how he chooses, like, random subjects, and he'll pose them in a studio and paint them somehow

was Obama. Yeah,
he was he was in like, even though, most most of the times, like his subjects are strangers, I'm sure like Obama was a stranger until he painted them. They have like this, like, quality to it, you know?
You say that, but it's also hard not to feel like, you know, yeah, I'm gonna need somebody. Yeah,
exactly. So he does that well with like, all of his paintings, you know, like, makes them feel like, you know, you know?

So, if that's your purely aesthetic inspirations, then how about your philosophical or cultural inspirations?

I've definitely explored the cultural aspect of art a lot more this year, with my Senior Capstone. The body of work that I did for that was about how water has affected black people, in a broad sense. So, most of that is pretty light on memory. And so for example, like, my cousin's drinking water out of a water hose, and just seeing like, how all of these different memories go back and like interacted with like historical events. Which has been very interesting because a lot of the paintings that I've been have done before it's been very, like on the nose, like, you know exactly what it's about. But with the memories, I didn't realize like how much history plays effect into like what we do today especially with water and how to fix that culture and like negatively and positively now as far as like philosophical i It's funny, because I don't think very hardly about like my art until it's done. So then I realized like what I did and then that gives me a headache. So it's, the philosophical part comes after for sure, especially when it comes to the naming pieces have been a lot more serious about naming pieces. So, yeah, it's definitely like a part of like that after reflection, I guess. Post reflection.
Makes sense.


What is your favorite painting that you've ever done? 

Okay, let me think. I've done so many paintings. Goodness, I tried to keep count. Now last count
are they on your website? That's all. That's like
just my, my like favorite paintings. If I'm counting Commission's not going to count commissions I'm gonna say enough sunshine is my favorite painting right now I can show you a picture. Oops to give it context. But it's orange and blue. It's an original painting. So do I have it up here? Yeah. So this painting was like a, a piece about, like, who I am and like what type of artists I wanted to be. And if those two, like, meshed well together, so it's definitely like identity peace. With the sunflowers, being blue, kind of represented, like my, how I felt about my art at the time. So, yeah, definitely my favorite painting. And every time I think about it, I just feel a different way about it. So
let's say that's a good sign. And you interpret it all a bunch of different ways. Thank you. I really liked your tick. Listen.
Thank you. Yeah, it was nice. Yeah, that was my favorite for a long time.
I didn't read the context behind it until like, just recently, but I had thought that it was like, taking place in some sort of like, very old, like, sort of sacred pool type place. It's like all the like architecture seems sort of golden. Yeah. Yeah. That was a cool painting. Thank you.
Almost at the end, this is my last question here. What is next for you as a content creator? Do you have anything that you need to plug? Yeah. You want to play? Yeah. Oh,
my gosh, I can't stand social media. But
does it content?
Yeah, no, it's so important, though. Like, I need to get back on it. But for the Watson will definitely be starting a blog, just to like document the year. And like, the materials that have come across. Most like we do like a YouTube page or YouTube channel to upload like videos, documenting everything. And all that will be on my website. Dasia. Cooper studio.
That's the link. I'll send people okay, that there will be some additional stuff is the last thing comes? Yeah, for sure. Is there anything else that you think should be in an article?
Yeah, comes the senior show. It's gonna be April 14, the 15th is the opening. Somebody there basically.
All right. You don't want to tell him anything else about your senior presentation thing? It's not a thesis. Yeah.
Technically no.
Or do you want to keep it a surprise?
Oh, anything more about like the presentation. Um, the presentation will be on April 14. That's really soon, but little days, 11 days, but the presentation will just have like all five of us seniors will present on our inspirations from the year. The process that we took in just background on all the pieces that we've created, I made eight paintings, and they'll be on display. The there'll be on display and the show will actually open on April 15. That following day at 6pm So the reception will be done and all the artwork will be up. Great time so
don't be annoying game.
Yeah, the winking.
I've never been in the wind game. Maybe I should go for the stinky show. I'd be my first time
yay.
Anything else you want to say?
Rate transcript quality
00:0019:32
Summary
 Upcoming Watson Project. 
0:00
 Restoring the mural. 
1:52
 How has hendricks helped you hone your artistic skills? 
3:43
 What is muralism and why is it so important? 
5:28
 How do you intend for your business to grow? 
7:37
 Her aesthetic inspirations. 
9:46
 Inspiration from the world around her. 
11:22
 Seeing how water has affected black people in culture. 
13:04
 What is your favorite painting you’ve done? 
14:50
 How to get in touch with her. 
17:02
How would you rate this summary?
All transcriptions completed


To Glisten -> Glitch Woman



HAVANA SYNDROME

TAKE VIGOROUS NOTES TONIGHT 
      https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jfO-XMbM5cA
	  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mIzylN__mdQ
	  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jTHPwcPFZrQ
	  https://soundcloud.com/chapo-trap-house/548-just-kids-from-new-york-8921
	  https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Havana_syndrome
	  
CITE ACTUAL NEWS ARTICLES FROM THE PAST MONTH FOR THE REST
CONCLUSION SAY "CIA GHOULS PROCESS GUILT AS AN AILMENT, MEDICALIZING IT IN AN UPPER-CLASS WAY"

P vs. NP:



People have studied problem-solving strategies for millenia, but the organization of such strategies into computational processes known as algorithms has taken on particular importance in the last century or so, in light of our "Digital Revolution." For any problem, or, "input," there exists some algorithm capable of solving it, or, producing an "output." The complexity of such an algorithm is measured by how many steps such an algorithm takes. Two among many categories computer scientists sort algorithms into are the "polynomial time" algorithms, which scale to larger versions of the same problem in small, reasonable amounts of time, and "exponential time" algorithms, which spiral out of control quickly, and are difficult to run on large, real-world problems.

From these two concepts springs the most essential unsolved problem in theoretical computer science. A problem (for example, a Sudoku grid) falls into the category of problems known as "NP" if its solution can be verified by a "polynomial time" algorithm, or, informally, "quickly." If someone hands you an attempted Sudoku solution, you only need to check each filled-in square once to make sure it's been solved correctly. The amount of time to check a Sudoku of a particular size doesn't grow that much for grids larger than 9x9, making this class of problems verifiable quickly. The unsolved question here is whether or not the fact that a problem belongs to category "NP", always implies that that problem belongs to another category of problems, called "P". This category means that the problem is then also solvable quickly, by some polynomial time algorithm. A proof either way, that NP always implies P, or that NP doesn't always imply P, would have massive ramifications for any situation involving any sort of algorithm. I spoke with Hendrix Computer Science Professors Brent Yorgey and Mark Goadrich, to get some opinions on this critical unsolved question backed up by experience.

GOADRICH:

I think P is not equal to NP. If it was, we would have found a way by now, but the problem is, by nature, inconclusive. This, to me, makes the field of CS far more interesting. Having an open problem at the core of a discipline exposes the limitations that formalization can impose on the discipline's process of problem solving. I am reminded of Godel's Incompleteness Theorem, which proves that there can be no fully coherent mathematical system, that is, paradoxes must always show up. The idea that computers have hard, unshakeable limits, like humans do, gives me hope for a future that must always be reliant on both styles of problem solving, that is, human-style, dynamic, and computer-style, methodical.

YORGEY:

I believe that P does not equal NP. Intuitively, I don't see it, although intuition isn't always accurate in this field. Further, there are hundreds of NP-Complete problems, such as the "Traveling Salesman" or "Boolean SAT Problem" which have had decades of intensive effort put into them, with no polynomial-time algorithm for any in sight. If even one was solved, then all would be possible, and P would equal NP, but none have been yet found. Maybe we aren't clever enough as a species to determine this, but I take the absence of proof as evidence that there is something fundamental at play. If P=NP was formally disproven, it would be a historic day, but life probably wouldn't change all that much. If it were proven, almost all encryption would instantly break, and most industrial algorithms would have to be rebuilt from the ground up. I see a third option, however, where P does equal NP, but the polynomials get so arbitrarily large that the proof doesn't impact much at all, in the real world. Our algorithms are getting good, for problems like "SAT," with rarer and rarer cases taking exponential time. I have hope for the future of computing, but I think this essential limit will always remain.