CVD

Max Parker

Pharoah

Ms. Elizabeth

Hunter


GZA

Josh Thomaczek

Hello Josh, I am currently researching the Hendrix Profile's forthcoming article on the conflict in Gaza. If there's anything that you think the Hendrix student body should know about the conflict, or do for those affected, that you didn't discuss in the community forum a couple weeks back, I would be eager to interview you whenever you're available over the next week. I'd also be down to talk to anyone else who spoke at that forum, but you are the only one who's email I have. 

Your colleage in code, Noah Morris

Anne Goldberg

Hello Dr. Goldberg, I am currently researching the Hendrix Profile's forthcoming article on the conflict in Gaza. The email you sent in collaboration with Dr. El Amoor was very empathetic and unambiguous; it helped me to understand the context and reality of the situation in a way most American news media hasn't. If there's anything else that you think the Hendrix student body should know about the conflict, or do for those affected, I would be eager to interview you whenever you're available over the next week. Do you have any open office hours before November 17th?

Noah Morris, Hendrix Profile

Izat El Amoor

Hello Dr. El Amoor, I am currently researching the Hendrix Profile's forthcoming article on the conflict in Gaza. The email you sent in collaboration with Dr. Goldberg was very empathetic and unambiguous; it helped me to understand the context and reality of the situation in a way most American news media hasn't. If there's anything else that you think the Hendrix student body should know about the conflict, or do for those affected, I would be eager to interview you whenever you're available over the next week. Do you have any open office hours before November 17th?

Noah Morris, Hendrix Profile

Todd Berryman

Hello Dr. Berryman, I am currently researching the Hendrix Profile's forthcoming article on the conflict in Gaza. You've taught a class on the history of the conflict, as well as others on Jewish history and American influence in Iraq. If there's anything that you think the Hendrix student body should know about the conflict, or do for those affected, I would be eager to interview you whenever you're available over the next week. Do you have any open office hours before November 17th?

Noah Morris, Hendrix Profile

Demah Yousef

Hello Demah, I am currently researching the Hendrix Profile's forthcoming article on the conflict in Gaza. My editor, Kendra Baldwin, mentioned that you might be interested in discussing this. If there's anything that you think the Hendrix student body should know about the conflict, or do for those affected, I would be eager to interview you whenever you're available, before November 17th.

Noah Morris, Hendrix Profile