Things are going well with our journalism game! Here's a brief survey of things that I've done, though other Disco Tray developers have accomplished other things.

1. Initially, to exit the notebook or investigation area, one had to click on an "x". This is fine, but I made it so that pressing "Q" does the same thing in both contexts. This was a simple change to describe, but required rearranging a lot of the scene-change infrastructure, and ultimately a lot of that is now more elegantly organized. 

2. I added animations for the main character, allowing for turning in all four directions, and a cute idle animation where he's writing in his notebook. In the future, we may want to animate NPCs, so this was a good refresher on that process.

3. In Unity, a GameObject that gets reused in many scenes can be set as a "Prefab", allowing for easier global changes. I did this for the protagonist, to help my animation changes, and allow for future work to be implemented more easily.

4. I fixed a weird error where all NPCs prompted "Cannot use 'velocity' on a static body".

5. Currently, the NPCs wander around the various towns according to a script that relies on "Waypoints". These are coordinates which are randomly cycled between, and the NPCs walk in straight lines from one to the next. I added this script to the NPCs in the river scene, and feel confident working more with it if I need to.

6. Initially, the game merely displayed the score on completion. I added a dictionary to the GameManager method which tracks the articles selected as true, and displays a single string containing all of them on the last page of the journal, and on the screen where the player gets their score. I am interested in this game building skills in fact-checking, and as a future update I could write 5 sentences for each piece of evidence (True, Mostly True, Indeterminate, Mostly False, False), and allow the user to select "how true" a piece of evidence is along a gradient instead of as a boolean. 

A particular case that I think could be interesting is "Tenskwatawa's prophecy came true: the earthquake came when he said it would, as punishment to the colonists for abusing Native American land". This is partially true, but not totally so, and to accept every aspect of it blindly (while tempting) is not telling the full story. Dr. Hancock wrote in his book of natural scientists of the time period who knew enough about the tectonic makeup of the area to recognize that an earthquake was soon to happen. In my eyes, the statement holds partial literal truth, and shows a common mentality of the time that was adopted for legitimate reasons, so to call it false or even indeterminate would be a stretch. In short, maybe a gradient could help to give people a better impression of what journalism feels like, and the methods I've implemented would help with that. 

This would also allow for more NPCs, talking about the same issues from different perspectives. Currently, each piece of evidence has one person advocating for or against it, but in journalism it is never advisable to report on the general mood on an issue with only one source. I am very excited for what's to come for this game.