Listen, I'll give you your list, your summary-style primer on my life, but you're not gonna get bullets or numbers out of me. Besides, I wrote almost all of this on Tuesday without the prompt. My grandmama was the only truly good woman my father ever knew. My mother was truly good, pure-of-heart, Joan-of-Arc style, but he didn't know. Grandmama bore three children to a sinister man I've only heard referred to as "The Gambler." He skipped town, as gamblers are wont to do, and in his place manifested an eerie, grotesque, 6'3 Welsh monster named Grandfather. The details I know on him are hazy. He was expelled from Little Rock Central High School two years before integration for riding a motorcycle down the stairs. He then proceeded to drift, flocking alongside fellow bikers to greener pastures and larger hollowed-out metal spheres. You could just do that in the '50s I guess. He became a uranium prospecter around here out in Nevada, definitely was a CIA asset by this point. He served in Korea and Vietnam (MAC V SOG unit) and, over the next eight years, became a full blown professional CIA assassin. At this point he married Grandmama, who bore him a son followed by a daughter, the eldest of which was Dad. He briefly, here, was "outside" of the CIA, doing a little down-home thing on a lark. He was an unsuccessful farmer (Dad gets PTSD flashbacks yelling about Grandfather with the shovel burying cabbage with aplomb and dead-eyed nostalgia now any time he smells kimchi) and unsuccessful preacher (The only time Dad ever saw Grandfather cry was in the pulpit). After a couple cruddy years of that, Grandfather began to crave postmodern life, and moved the family (sans stepkids, due to he brutally molested his two pre-teen stepdaughters (who don't really keep in touch with the rest of the family) and never really liked methhead Uncle Mitch (who unfortunately does keep in touch)) from base to base, Phillipines and Virginia were the ones that Dad remembered the most vividly. Grandfather just kept killing and molesting, he thought it was regular 'cause he was a CIA guy. My Dad and Aunt got out as soon as they could, Dad was a grunge carpenter who didn't really finish high school, did a lot of drugs, and played guitar. Eventually he decided to emulate my aunt Nona (his one full sibling) and try to go to college, and successfully finagled the UCA Honors program through a destitute, powerful pitch to that Schedler guy from the name of it. He met Mom at this point, who had a less coherent familial background. Her mother was a teen when she had her, and she was adopted by her great-uncle, a truck driver who was only there two weeks out of every month, and his pill-addicted aloof wife Loretta. Mom really did not like to talk about her childhood. Suffice to say money was scarce in Blackwell, AR, and the neoliberal/homogenizing/deculturifying raygun of college was accepted by her with open arms. When Dad met Mom, she was banging her bestie Jennifer, who was (I'm saying this as someone exclusively attracted to men) devastatingly beautiful. Dad didn't really care, that girl on girl shit doesn't like "count", y'know? That's how he explained it to me. Under full scholarship, my parents got codependant and married fast. They always had moxie and grit, always moving on up. My mom had me somewhat young at 25. That was a bad idea: Dad had been chronically infidelious from the get-go, but they were too codependant for anything to be done about that. They're still married, he's still cheating, she's still unhappy with this arrangement. She was teaching at UCA at this point, gender studies, anthro, shit like that. Pronoun shit in 2003. She was a live-in professor in Minton Hall (Dad doing law school), so I spent my first 4 years of life just totally surrounded on all sides by friendly, diverse personalities, all willing to give a cute little baby some attention. I was the equivalent of a campus cat, basically. My mother (who worked hard) just kinda let me wander, and I've still got aunts and uncles to this day from then. Another child comes, and we moved to a more suburban-style suburb, down to Maumelle. Jennifer also took a husband, "Alan," an asshole, and had kids, but she and my mom maintained their best-friendship / tragic-sapphics thing, with Jennifer's children becoming close friends with my brothers and I, and the whole unit becoming something of a "mega-family". My mom thought I was smart cause I read early and was mad autistic, but nevertheless I went to this really godawful charter school run out of a few trailers by some guy who got fired from the LRSSD. Went there a while, did the whole "little kid" thing 'till I got tired of it. Jennifer died in 2012. That was when my mother became a nihilist. Her children and "husband", for some reason, began living with another lover that Jennifer had taken, this wild lesbian party-girl med student named Caitlyn. She was good for them, oddly, and in spite of my mother's latent envy and hatred of her she ultimately ceded that "Jennifer's kids needed someone to be there for them and Alan just seems to be boozing." Their whole family skipped town after a couple years, following Caitlyn on her residency. The cooking in my house was always bad. Spaghetti, Hamburger Helper, Chicken and Dumplings, or Beef Potato Stew. The whole mega-family were always athiests, never really directed against swearing. I got pushed ahead two grades right after they left, going directly from sixth to ninth grade. Spent maybe a year and a half in stasis, no friends. This was when The Pain started. I played Risk with myself most days, or roamed around the woods. Eventually I got desperate enough to fall in with a clique of three odious assholes: Michael was a mixed guy in the throws of turmoil and self-hatred due from his super Republican upbringing (white dad hard repub, black mom straightens hair and takes pains to downplay her cultural background), which he channelled into a constant stream of vitriolic jokes and insults. Trevor added to that flame, a wide-grinned creature of infinite jest, rote 4chan alt-right freak who owned guns and loved to advocate for Eric and Dylan's side of the story. There was a fourth, a truly heinous bitch, but if I spent more than a moment or two telling you about her I'd jam a toothpick under my big toenail and kick a wall as hard as I could. I went to college when I was 16, spent about a year gleefully being a slobbering shithead. Covid hit that March, and I suddenly couldn't see anyone for five months (living with grandparents upped the stakes) (There was an exception there, I convinced my mom to let me Floyd protest, which was impactful). Even when I saw people again, I didn't get that neutral good-feeling, that didn't come back for years, still comes and goes. I got that parcel from "Jocko Homo," ending The Pain, and now I'm lingering in ENGC 307, 19 years old. I've tried alcohol, marijuana, LSD, shrooms, E, MDMA, DMT, Ketamine, [DELETED], and [DELETED], and I'm only addicted to two of them now. My >1 hour/day hobbies are biking, writing, and cooking. For work, I go to Hendrix College pursuing a double major in Mathematics and Computer Science, tutor Precal, Cal I, and Cal II to students here, write for The Profile, and (when I need a little extra cash) still sometimes make sandwiches at Jimmy Johns. I am currently a senior, although 