CHARRETTE OUTLINE

LEE

tonal inspiration: pynchon (tcol49), gilligan (to'hajiilee), boon (paranoidtime)

some real life things that will influence characters and events (witness resonance):

my grandfather. my grandfather was probably the most evil man I've ever heard of. I'd be doubled over right now from colonizer guilt if my family derived any sort of tangible monetary or social benefit from his truly horrifying decades of service for the military and CIA. this story will follow his son (a made-up guy not really like my dad or uncle, gay man from AR b.1957 story starts in 1978. His personality will be somewhat based on Lee Harvey Oswald and this one guy I know who's a journalist). He is a Modern Psychiatry major at Public State University, who has just accepted his first "real job" with the Bureau of Management and Modern Dynamics, which he doesn't really understand the structure or function of. He was administered LSD there by CIA-affiliated psychiatrists, in the afterimage of MK-ULTRA (which continues to this day). He applied for an "internship", which at this point was a new thing. This is where the story starts: it's his first-person perspective, a series of articles, in the vein of his chimeric gods Bob Woodward JFK and Hunter Thompson. He's a ghastly, sort of feral leftist who frequently goes off on tangents. It starts with "I hate the workplace and America" type stuff, and unfolds his revelations of what his company is truly funded by and targeted against. Expect a lot of talk about abiogenic petroleum, some mild lies about Srinivasa Ramanujan




//31. CONFLICT WITH GOD: struggle between a mortal and immortal, often at latter’s negligence.
//17. IMPRUDENCE: someone is fatally unable, causing detriment. often a bad gamble.


//DRUGS: LSD, Opiates, Alcohol
//PARTICULAR CREATURES: banshee, evil twin, AGLs, star jelly, MK-ULTRA agents, abiogenic petrol

IN THIS UNIVERSE JIM JONES DOES NOT EXIST, THIS WILL NOT BE EXPLAINED. THE YEAR ALSO WON'T BE OVERT. FEARS OF AIDS HAVEN'T HIT YET, ALTHOUGH THE DISEASE EXISTS.

This story involves the karmic undoing of a man named Lee Fava, a gangly straight-edge first-wave punker who really just wants to go to England. His father was a sadistic CIA man, and the details of this slowly unveil themselves, he didn't know them initially. He's going to school for journalism, really loves Watergate (he holds it up as "the absolute pinnacle of civic engagement"). Due to a series of firings from the jobs within walking distance of Public State University, he mostly gets money by selling weed occasionally (which he gets from his brother (based on my bad uncle)). He's only got a couple of friends, ()






BOX

//9. BOLD ENTERPRISE: A bold leader faces an opponent to acquire the desirable object.
//17. IMPRUDENCE: someone is fatally unable, causing detriment. often a bad gamble.

//DRUGS: adderall, LSD, MDMA, Ketamine
//PARTICULAR CREATURES: AGI, living suit of armor, airborne mycelium supercomputer, dyson sphere about some antimatter, subterranean civilization, megafauna, docilizing SSRIs