CIA MIND VIRUS

The Biden administration plans to pay some diplomats and intelligence officers roughly $100,000 to $200,000 each to compensate for the mysterious health problems known as “Havana syndrome,” according to congressional aides and a former official familiar with the matter.

The payment plan is the culmination of a multiyear push by Congress, which passed a law last fall mandating that the State Department and CIA compensate current and former officials suffering from what the government calls Anomalous Health Incidents, or AHIs.

Despite six years of investigations, the United States still lacks certainty about what is causing the symptoms, which include headaches, vision problems, dizziness and brain fog, among other ailments. The health problems were first reported among U.S. diplomats and intelligence officers serving in Cuba’s capital but have since been reported on every continent except Antarctica.

The six-figure payments will go to those determined to have suffered the most significant setbacks, such as job loss or career derailment, said people briefed on the plan who like others spoke on the condition of anonymity because the plan has not been approved for release.

U.S. officials cautioned that the range of compensation is not yet final and could change as the State Department’s regulation goes through the final stages of a review process, which is coordinated by the Office of Management and Budget.

The CIA determined this winter that a foreign country is probably not behind a “worldwide campaign harming U.S. personnel with a weapon or mechanism” — an assessment that raised doubts about years of speculation that the health issues were the result of a mysterious directed energy weapon wielded by Russian or Chinese agents.

Government investigators have reviewed more than 1,000 cases, with the majority being attributed to a preexisting medical condition or environmental or other factors. Dozens of other reported cases remain unexplained.

As word of the compensation packages has trickled out to the federal workforce, some officials have remarked that the packages were generous while others have said the compensation range seems insufficient, given the loss of future and past income for those who suffered severe neurological damage and can no longer work.

The Biden administration has not yet released the criteria for how it will determine eligibility for compensation, but it is expected to be made public shortly. Current and former officials as well as their family members will be eligible to make claims, said those briefed on the plan.

Under the Havana Act, Congress gave the secretary of state and CIA director the authority to determine eligibility, which has already caused concerns about whether diplomats and intelligence officers will be treated the same.

“It is crucial that CIA and State implement the Havana Act in an identical fashion. To include using the exact same criteria who qualifies for compensation. There cannot be any daylight between agencies, which previously was an unfortunate hallmark in how the USG responded to the AHIs,” said Marc Polymeropoulos, a former senior CIA officer. He retired in 2019 while suffering symptoms, including painful headaches, after a trip to Moscow in 2017, when he was helping run clandestine operations in Russia.

Devising a compensation plan has been particularly difficult for U.S. government officials, given the lack of hard evidence for what’s causing the ailments and the inability to establish a clear diagnosis for the broad range of symptoms that while sometimes debilitating can also be common.

Officials with the State Department and CIA said Thursday that the Havana Act authorized the agencies to provide payments to personnel for “qualifying injuries to the brain.”

The two agencies have been working in partnership with the National Security Council on how the payment system will work and will have more information on it soon, the CIA official said.

The official added that the legislation provides the CIA and other agencies “the authority to make payments to employees, eligible family members, and other individuals affiliated with the CIA.”

“As Director Burns has emphasized, nothing is more important to him and CIA leaders than taking care of our people,” the official said, referencing CIA Director William J. Burns.

Officials from the National Institutes of Health, the Pentagon and other agencies have jointly developed a new, two-hour medical exam to screen potential new cases that can be administered by doctors or other practitioners to U.S. personnel assigned to overseas missions.

The triage process includes visual, vestibular and blood testing but not brain imaging, a fact that reflects constantly changing and sometimes-disputed science on the injuries. Even though some doctors previously identified “perceptible changes” in the brain as a result of apparent attacks, State Department physicians say they now believe the scans have no scientific validity.

Officials are also seeking to better educate medical staffers at missions worldwide, instructing them to be receptive to potential victims’ experiences — and they stress that skepticism is no longer the norm.

In January, Secretary of State Antony Blinken said the State Department, like the CIA, was focused on providing medical care to those needing it, and would continue to seek a cause behind the health issues.

“We are going to continue to bring all of our resources to bear in learning more about these incidents, and there will be additional reports to follow. We will leave no stone unturned,” he wrote.

-https://www.washingtonpost.com/national-security/2022/06/23/united-states-havana-syndrome-payments/

This week, President Joe Biden signed into law the National Defense Authorization Act, his $768 billion defense spending bill. Buried inside is a provision that allocates some $30 million to treat “Havana syndrome.” Whether you read mainstream news stories (or online conspiracy theories), you’ve likely seen mentions of this mysterious illness popping up more and more frequently.
What is it?

That is the $64,000 question to which even the federal government would like an answer. A seemingly increasing number of U.S. intelligence officials and diplomats argue it’s a sonic weapon of some kind that they believe is causing headaches, nausea, and other debilitating neurological symptoms to diplomats, CIA officials, and other federal employees.

It’s called Havana Syndrome because the first cases were reported in 2016 by U.S. diplomats in Cuba. They started experiencing mysterious neurological symptoms mimicking what happens after a concussion, but had suffered no head injury. Since then, newer cases have been reported by U.S. military personnel based everywhere from Washington, D.C., to Moscow, Taiwan, Colombia, Uzbekistan, Austria, and China.

In 2019, JAMA published a paper that studied the neuroimaging of 40 diplomats who claimed they’d been exposed in Cuba. Their images showed “significant brain neuroimaging differences,” but the authors declared the explanation was “uncertain and may require further study.” Last December, another group of experts at the National Academies wrote that “directed pulsed radio-frequency energy” (basically an electric weapon) was “the most plausible” explanation, and it sort of stuck.

Naysayers, meanwhile, argue the explanation could be exposure to pesticides, just crickets making noises, or simple mass hysteria. Proponents of the latter cause argue that though the syndrome itself may not be real, the symptoms are. One doctor has likened it to how after phones were invented, a wave of telephone operators suddenly developed “acoustic shock” that they attributed to sitting so close to the switchboards.
Who’s behind it?

Some U.S. officials are convinced Russian military intelligence is the cause, even though the evidence doesn’t yet point to one particular perpetrator, and scientists can’t seem to find proof that there has been an actual attack. Just this past November, CIA Director William Burns met with Russian intelligence officials in Moscow and reportedly warned them that if America discovers Russia is responsible, there will be “consequences.”
What will this $30 million do?

Perhaps strategically, the defense-spending bill avoided using the words Havana syndrome anywhere, instead opting for “anomalous health incidents,” or AHIs. (The government loves euphemisms—think UFOs.) Still, the bill authorizes the president to appoint a senior official who will get to lead a whole-of-government effort to learn more about these AHIs. It also creates a Department of Defense cross-functional team to coordinate the Pentagon’s response. This team is also tasked with addressing the potential “national security challenges” posed by the phenomenon, and ensuring officials who say they’ve been affected by the incidents receive adequate medical care.

https://www.fastcompany.com/90709814/bidens-defense-bill-includes-30-million-to-support-havana-syndrome-victims

Washington (CNN)Federal agencies are investigating at least two possible incidents on US soil, including one near the White House in November of last year, that appear similar to mysterious, invisible attacks that have led to debilitating symptoms for dozens of US personnel abroad.
Multiple sources familiar with the matter tell CNN that while the Pentagon and other agencies probing the matter have reached no clear conclusions on what happened, the fact that such an attack might have taken place so close to the White House is particularly alarming.
Defense officials briefed lawmakers on the Senate and House Armed Services Committees on the matter earlier this month, including on the incident near the White House. That incident, which occurred near the Ellipse, the large oval lawn on the south side of the White House, sickened one National Security Council official, according to multiple current and former US officials and sources familiar with the matter.

In a separate 2019 episode, a White House official reported a similar attack while walking her dog in a Virginia suburb just outside Washington, GQ reported last year.

Those sickened reported similar symptoms to CIA and State Department personnel impacted overseas, and officials quickly began to investigate the incident as a possible "Havana syndrome" attack. That name refers to unexplained symptoms that US personnel in Cuba began experiencing in late 2016 -- a varying set of complaints that includes ear popping, vertigo, pounding headaches and nausea, sometimes accompanied by an unidentified "piercing directional noise."

Rumors have long swirled around Washington about similar incidents within the United States. While the recent episodes around Washington appear similar to the previous apparent attacks affecting diplomats, CIA officers and other US personnel serving in Cuba, Russia and China, investigators have not determined whether the puzzling incidents at home are connected to those that have occurred abroad or who may be behind them, sources tell CNN.
Defense officials who briefed lawmakers said it was possible Russia was behind the attacks, but they did not have enough information to say for sure. Another former US official involved in the investigation at the time said China was also among the suspects.

What we know about the possible &#39;sonic attacks&#39; in Cuba and now China
What we know about the possible 'sonic attacks' in Cuba and now China
The US has struggled to understand these attacks since 2016 and 2017, when diplomatic and intelligence personnel in Cuba first began reporting alarming symptoms that seemed to appear out of the blue. Intelligence and defense officials have been reluctant to speak publicly about the strange incidents, and some who were impacted have complained publicly that the CIA did not take the matter seriously enough, at least initially.
The attacks eventually led to a dramatic drawdown of staff at the outpost in Havana under the Trump administration. Personnel in Russia and China reported similar, unexplained incidents. Though there's no consensus as to what causes the symptoms, one State Department-sponsored study found they likely were the result of microwave energy attacks.
A 'bureaucratic power play'
Another mystery surrounding "Havana syndrome" is how the US government is confronting the problem. Among those investigating the mysterious pattern of possible attacks are the CIA, the State Department and the Defense Department.
Near the end of the Trump administration, the Pentagon sought to take the lead out of perceived frustration that other agencies were not doing enough to address the issue.
"I knew CIA and Department of State were not taking this sh*t seriously and we wanted to shame them into it by establishing our task force," Chris Miller, who was acting defense secretary at the time, told CNN last week.
Pentagon leaders set up the task force to track reports of such symptoms hitting Defense Department personnel overseas, an effort that Miller said was intended in part as a "bureaucratic power play" to force CIA and State to take the problem more seriously in their own personnel.
Miller said he began to see reports of these mysterious symptoms as a higher priority in December, after interviewing an alleged victim with extensive combat experience.
"When this officer came in and I knew his background and he explained in an extraordinarily detailed but more military style that I could understand, I was like this is actually for real," Miller said. "This kid had been in combat a bunch and he knew."
The CIA began its task force in December 2020, and expanded its efforts under new Director William Burns, who vowed during his confirmation hearings to review the evidence on the alleged attacks on CIA personnel overseas, which have long been publicly reported. The State Department named a senior official to lead the department's response to the "Havana syndrome" attacks in March.
The Defense Department's effort is thought to be among the most robust, potentially explaining why a defense official, rather than the intelligence community or the FBI, briefed lawmakers on the incident at the Ellipse, even though it took place on US soil.
Miller tapped Griffin Decker, a career civil servant from US Special Operations Command, to run the effort. Decker would track and verify reports in the military of what by then had become known informally as "Havana syndrome." Miller says Griffin would report a new case to him "every couple of weeks," although he cautioned that they were on the lookout for false reporting, psychosomatic episodes or hypochondria. Some of the cases they tracked included the children and dependents of Defense Department personnel overseas, Miller said.
Director of National Intelligence Avril Haines was asked about CNN's reporting by Sen. Jeanne Shaheen, a New Hampshire Democrat, at a Senate Armed Services Committee hearing on Thursday. Haines did not discuss the specifics but called the issue of the mysterious attacks "critically important" and added, "across the intelligence community, frankly, leaders are focused on this issue."
Haines also defended the classification of information related to the attacks but said members of Congress "should certainly have access to the classified information."
A White House spokesperson said in a statement, "The White House is working closely with departments and agencies to address unexplained health incidents and ensure the safety and security of Americans serving around the world. Given that we are still evaluating reported incidents and that we need to protect the privacy of individuals reporting incidents, we cannot provide or confirm specific details at this time."
Difficult to determine cause of symptoms
Decker and Jennifer Walsh, who was the acting under secretary of defense for policy, briefed House and Senate lawmakers over the last two weeks on the possible attacks, two sources familiar with the briefings told CNN. Politico first reported on the committee briefings.
In one incident that was investigated, Marines on a remote base in Syria developed flu-like symptoms shortly after a Russian helicopter flew over the base -- raising immediate concerns that it could be one of these strange attacks. But "it was quickly traced, where they had bad food and where no one else on the base had the same symptoms," said one former US official with knowledge of the incident. It was also determined by a defense physician that the symptoms had begun prior to the Russia patrol, a defense official told CNN.
The Syria episode highlights the difficulties that US officials face in trying to pin down what is and isn't an attack. The symptoms often vary, and officials still have no clear sense of how the unknown adversary is doing what it's doing. At least one former US official with knowledge of the matter said that investigators still haven't completely ruled out the possibility that the symptoms are caused by some kind of naturally occurring phenomenon rather than a weapon.
Another US defense official confirmed that the Pentagon's investigation is ongoing. The official would offer no details, but said, "We would not still be looking at this if we didn't have equities in it."
"There is nothing that the Secretary of Defense takes more seriously that the safety, health and welfare of our personnel serving around the globe in defense of our values and freedoms," Pentagon press secretary John Kirby said in a statement. "Any concerns on issues that call that into question are thoroughly reviewed, and the appropriate actions are taken to mitigate risks to our personnel."
A March report from the National Academy of Sciences found that "directed, pulsed radiofrequency energy" was the most likely cause of the strange set of symptoms. While the report was carefully written not to overstate its findings, it offered some of the clearest public evidence to date that the incidents could be attacks, attributing the afflictions to "pulsed" or "directed" energy.

Some personnel have been seriously injured from the alleged attacks, with at least one career CIA officer forced to retire last year and diagnosed with a traumatic brain injury.
This story has been updated with comments from the White House and also the Director of National Intelligence.

https://web.archive.org/web/20210429175852/https://www.cnn.com/2021/04/29/politics/us-investigating-mysterious-directed-energy-attack-white-house/index.html

There have been at least a hundred and thirty possible cases around the world.Illustration by Timo Lenzen

During the final weeks of the Trump Administration, a senior official on the National Security Council sat at his desk in the Eisenhower Executive Office Building, across from the West Wing, on the White House grounds. It was mid-November, and he had recently returned from a work trip abroad. At the end of the day, he left the building and headed toward his car, which was parked a few hundred yards away, along the Ellipse, between the White House and the Washington Monument. As he walked, he began to hear a ringing in his ears. His body went numb, and he had trouble controlling the movement of his legs and his fingers. Trying to speak to a passerby, he had difficulty forming words. “It came on very suddenly,” the official recalled later, while describing the experience to a colleague. “In a matter of about seven minutes, I went from feeling completely fine to thinking, Oh, something’s not right, to being very, very worried and actually thinking I was going to die.”

He fell to the ground before he reached his car, and realized that he was in no condition to drive. Instead, he made his way to Constitution Avenue, where he hoped to hail a taxi. He managed to open the Lyft app on his phone, and ordered a driver, who took him to the hospital. When he arrived at the emergency room, the official thought, I’m probably not walking out of here.

He approached the reception desk. “Are you on drugs?” a doctor asked him.

The official shook his head. He was led to an examination room. Hospital staff found his White House identification card in his pocket, and three cell phones, one of which they used to call his wife. They thought he might be having a stroke, but an MRI ruled it out. Blood tests also turned up nothing unusual. The official, who was in his mid-thirties, had no preëxisting conditions. The doctors were at a loss, but told him they suspected that he had suffered a “massive migraine with aura.”

It took about two hours for his speech to begin to return. When he checked out of the hospital, the next day, he still had a pounding headache, but was soon able to go back to work. Several days later, a colleague called him to discuss suspected cases of the Havana Syndrome, a mysterious ailment that had first affected dozens of U.S. officials in Cuba, and which now appeared to be spreading. The N.S.C. official didn’t think that he was suffering from the Havana Syndrome; it seemed outlandish that someone would be struck while on the grounds of the White House. But, as his colleague described some of the more severe cases that had been reported, it occurred to the official that this might be his problem. “Look, this is probably nothing,” he told his colleague, “but what you described sounds kind of like what happened to me.”

Three years ago, my colleague Jon Lee Anderson and I published a piece in The New Yorker about the first Havana Syndrome incidents among C.I.A. and State Department employees. Beginning in December, 2016, officials described being bombarded by waves of pressure in their heads. Some said they heard sounds resembling an immense swarm of cicadas, following them from room to room—but when they opened a door to the outside the sounds abruptly stopped. A few reported feeling as if they were standing in an invisible beam of energy. The aftereffects ranged: debilitating headaches; tinnitus; loss of vision and hearing; vertigo; brain fog; loss of balance and muscle control. For some, the symptoms went away quickly; for others, they have persisted. The experiences have varied to such an extent that government doctors have struggled to form a coherent diagnosis, and many of the patients have been met with skepticism both inside and outside the government.

One of the most convincing early cases involved a senior C.I.A. officer who had flown to Cuba, in secret, to meet with colleagues there. In her room at the Hotel Nacional, in August, 2017, the officer awoke with a start to a low humming noise and a feeling of intense pressure in her head. She asked a colleague who came to her room if he heard anything, but he did not. A few days later, after she returned to C.I.A. headquarters, she began to have trouble with her eyesight and her balance, making it impossible to read or to drive. At the time, the officer was the highest-ranking member of the C.I.A. to become ill with the syndrome. The incident persuaded Mike Pompeo, the C.I.A. director, to shut down the agency’s station in Havana, and Rex Tillerson, the Secretary of State, followed suit, pulling U.S. diplomats out of the country. Some government employees, who were uninjured and invested in their assignments, considered the withdrawal an overreaction. The result was confusion, division, and anger.

After the events in Cuba, there were a few potentially related incidents that the C.I.A. tried to handle internally; one of these involved an intelligence officer who, in late 2017, woke up in a hotel room in Moscow with severe vertigo. (A C.I.A. doctor told him, “This isn’t it,” referring to the Havana Syndrome.) It wasn’t until the summer of 2020, more than a year after two White House staff members reported Havana Syndrome-like episodes, that their bosses decided to conduct a government-wide analysis, essentially reopening a cold case.

They have discovered that what began with several dozen spies and diplomats in Havana now encompasses more than a hundred and thirty possible cases, from Colombia to Kyrgyzstan and Uzbekistan to Austria, in addition to the United States and other countries. At least four of the cases involve Trump White House officials, two of whom say they had episodes on the Ellipse. The C.I.A. accounts for some fifty cases. The rest are mostly U.S. military and State Department personnel and their family members.

Top officials in both the Trump and the Biden Administrations privately suspect that Russia is responsible for the Havana Syndrome. Their working hypothesis is that agents of the G.R.U., the Russian military’s intelligence service, have been aiming microwave-radiation devices at U.S. officials to collect intelligence from their computers and cell phones, and that these devices can cause serious harm to the people they target. Yet during the past four years U.S. intelligence agencies have been unable to find any evidence to back up this theory, let alone sufficient proof to publicly accuse Russia. “Intelligence is an imperfect science,” a U.S. intelligence official told me. “It’s what you know, and it can change in a blink of an eye.” There is still disagreement about how to refer to the incidents. Privately, officials characterize them as “attacks.” Publicly, they refer to them as “anomalous health incidents.”

In late May, 2019, a large group of White House officials checked into an InterContinental Hotel in London, where they prepared for President Donald Trump’s state visit. Before dawn on the day of Trump’s arrival, Sandra Adams, a mid-level White House staffer, collected a sheaf of documents that had arrived overnight for her team, and had a quick breakfast in the hotel dining room. When she returned to her room, overlooking Green Park, she pulled open the curtains and settled into a chair to read. Suddenly, a ringing sound, annoying at first, then distinctly painful, seemed to envelop her. When she left the room, her ears continued ringing.

Video From The New Yorker

 

Later in the trip, she invited a more junior White House staff member, Adrian Banks, to hang out with her in her hotel room before the two went to dinner. (The names Sandra Adams and Adrian Banks are pseudonyms.) As they chatted on the couch, Adams again heard the sound, and felt an acute pressure in her head, as did Banks. They rushed out of the room and into the hallway, where the sound and the pressure subsided. But for the rest of the trip both officials suffered migraines.

When the delegation returned to Washington, Adams described the incident to a special White House office responsible for tracking security threats. She was told that what had happened to Banks and her was classified, which meant that they were not supposed to tell anyone, including their doctors, about their experience in London. They visited doctors at the White House Medical Unit, who thought that Adams and Banks were suffering from ordinary headaches and sinus infections that had potentially been brought on by stress. The doctors suggested that they take ibuprofen and decongestants and get some rest. As the weeks passed, Adams’s ears and lymph nodes became more swollen, her migraines grew worse, and she felt as if she had strep throat. Banks continued to have headaches, too. Their symptoms persisted despite repeated visits to private physicians and urgent-care clinics. Adams told a colleague, “No one seemed to take it seriously.”

In the cramped warrens of the West Wing, Adams and Banks would often cross paths with Charles Kupperman, the deputy national-security adviser and a veteran of the Reagan White House. In 1978, Kupperman, a hard-liner in Russian affairs, wrote an article cautioning Americans that “the ability of the U.S. to defend itself is in doubt” because of the “size, sophistication and rate of growth of Soviet military power.” When the Soviet Union collapsed, in 1991, he was the president of Xsirius Superconductivity, a company working on the use of microwave technology to allow helicopters to detect radiation from air-defense radar systems.

Kupperman joined the N.S.C. staff in April, 2018, as a top policy aide to John Bolton, Trump’s national-security adviser. Early in his tenure, Kupperman told Bolton that he wanted to take on the Havana Syndrome and “drive it into the ground.” He had no proof, but he was convinced that the Russians were behind the attacks, and that they were using technology that the K.G.B. had devised during the Cold War. “The Russians have a very good capability in microwave weaponry,” Kupperman told me.

The victims in Cuba had been spies and diplomats, so the Havana Syndrome investigation was being led by the C.I.A. and the State Department. In the spring of 2018, both agencies were in a period of transition; Trump fired Tillerson and nominated Pompeo to replace him as Secretary of State, and Gina Haspel succeeded Pompeo as the director of the C.I.A. She and her deputy, Vaughn Bishop, visited the White House for meetings, and Kupperman would pull them aside to discuss the Havana Syndrome, with which he had become obsessed. He pressed them for information, but they repeatedly told him that they didn’t have “anything new.” The intelligence agencies, Kupperman said, “didn’t really make it a priority to use all of their resources and accesses to figure this out as quickly as they could.” He added, of Haspel, “She was skeptical that it was real, and, once she was, the rest of that organization took its cue.”

Haspel wasn’t the only one who seemed unconvinced. After the initial incidents in Havana, the F.B.I. sent a team of agents to the city to try to figure out what might be causing the illnesses. They found no dispositive evidence of any attacks, although by the time they arrived the theoretical perpetrators would have had ample opportunity to conceal any evidence of wrongdoing. In addition, profilers with the F.B.I.’s Behavioral Analysis Unit conducted assessments of the victims. The unit presented its findings to State Department officials, including John Sullivan, a Deputy Secretary and the head of a task force that the department had set up to look into the syndrome. The profilers’ assessment was that the victims were suffering from a mass psychogenic illness, a condition in which a group of people, often thinking that they have been exposed to something dangerous, begin to feel sick at the same time.

But, when a State Department official asked how many victims the profilers had interviewed, the unit explained that it hadn’t spoken to any of them directly. The unit’s conclusions were based on transcripts of previous interviews that the F.B.I. had done with the patients, and on “patient histories” compiled by the victims’ doctors, including neuropsychologists and other specialists, who had already ruled out the idea of a mass psychogenic illness: many of the victims didn’t know about the other people who were sick, and their bodies couldn’t have feigned some of the symptoms they were exhibiting.

Bolton, like Kupperman, believed that the Havana Syndrome was real, and he initially thought that either Russia or China was responsible. By the summer of 2018, he’d landed on Russia; more possible cases were reported by U.S. diplomats at the consulate in Guangzhou, and Bolton didn’t think that the Chinese would take such action on their home turf. Bolton told me that Pompeo said, “I’ve looked at this since the Administration started. Nobody can figure out what’s going on.” Bolton then met with officials from the C.I.A. “They couldn’t reach agreement on who did it,” Bolton told me. “In fact, they couldn’t reach agreement on whether it was real.” He went on, “I told them, ‘Look, as far as I am concerned, the fact that we had this happen not just in Cuba—though that was the biggest collection of cases—but in China, it seems to me this ought to be a high priority.’ And they said, ‘We’re still working on it.’ ”

Kupperman was promoted to deputy national-security adviser in January, 2019, at which point he received access to the government’s most sensitive intelligence programs. He told his C.I.A. briefer to show him any new intelligence regarding the Havana Syndrome, but he was given few updates. As far as he could tell, the C.I.A. had found very little since he joined the Administration.

Then, in June, Sandra Adams and Adrian Banks told Kupperman about what had happened to them in London. He had no doubt they were telling the truth. Kupperman told Bolton and officials at the C.I.A., hoping that they would reassess the threat now that there appeared to be two White House victims. William Happer, a former N.S.C. official and an expert on radiation propagation, who was involved in the discussions, said that his C.I.A. colleagues didn’t know what to make of the new cases. “There was only anecdotal, fuzzy information,” Happer told me. “The problem was the lack of really good data. We didn’t have very much.”
Kings horseman makes announcement about the king acknowledging his privilege.
“Hear ye, hear ye! His Majesty is about to acknowledge his privilege!”

Cartoon by Liana Finck

There was one tangible result. When Bolton and his delegation returned to London, they stayed at a Marriott.

Often, when a person suffers a concussion or another form of head trauma, biomarkers indicating damaged brain tissue are detectable in the blood soon after the initial injury. When the first set of C.I.A. victims cropped up in Cuba, medical personnel at the U.S. Embassy in Havana drew their blood and placed the samples in a refrigerator. Researchers planned to check the samples for blood biomarkers. But in September, 2017, when Hurricane Irma hit Cuba, the Embassy lost power, and the refrigerated samples were spoiled.

The opportunity to do blood tests was lost, but specialists at the University of Pennsylvania’s Center for Brain Injury and Repair have been able to use MRIs to study the brains of forty Havana Syndrome patients. They found no signs of physical impact to the victims’ skulls—it was as if the victims had “a concussion without a concussion,” one specialist told me—but the team found signs consistent with damage to the patients’ brains: the volume of white matter was smaller than in a similar group of healthy adults, which indicated that something structural in the brain had been affected.

At the White House, Adams and Banks continued to experience symptoms. Kupperman lobbied to have them evaluated by State Department doctors who had examined other suspected victims of the Havana Syndrome in Cuba and in China. A few months after the incident in London, the doctors checked Banks’s and Adams’s vision, balance, hearing, and cognitive skills, in a series of tests known as the Havana Protocol. Adams listed the symptoms that had persisted: migraines, swollen lymph nodes, and sore throat. A doctor told her, referring to the Havana victims, “Whatever you heard, those are not the same symptoms as the rest of the cohort.” Adams left with the distinct impression that the doctor wanted her to believe that she had “imagined the experience” in London.

Banks saw a different doctor at the State Department. After the tests for balance and cognition, the doctor said, “You passed.” Banks tried to explain that some days were better than others, and that on bad days the pain was more severe. “I was having a good day,” Banks told a colleague. But the doctor was skeptical. Adams and Banks reported back to Kupperman. “They said, ‘We know our bodies and we know these symptoms and it’s not normal,’ ” he recalled. “Nobody did any serious medical diagnostics, which is just appalling.” Bolton was frustrated, too. “But, after a while, there really wasn’t much more I could do,” he told me. “You can say to somebody only so many times, ‘What’s the cause?,’ and then have them reply, ‘I don’t know.’ ” His takeaway was that C.I.A. officials believed the Havana Syndrome was an incoherent collection of psychosomatic reports, groupthink, and “disparate mental conditions.” He told me, “They just weren’t going to pursue it.”

Bolton and Kupperman had limited influence outside the N.S.C. They didn’t think they could direct the Bureau of Medical Services at the State Department to give Adams and Banks MRIs, or that they could force the C.I.A. to pursue the investigation more aggressively. Also, this was the Trump Administration. Turnover was high. “When agencies disagreed with something, they had a very easy out,” a former White House official told me. “Just wait a few months.”

By September, 2019, Bolton was out. Kupperman followed soon afterward, but before he left he gave his files on the Havana Syndrome to Matthew Pottinger, the new deputy national-security adviser. “You probably will have your own priorities, but this is one you need to keep track of,” Kupperman told him. “We had individuals that were impacted by this.”

That November, Adams, who lives in Virginia, was walking her dog with a friend, when she noticed that an S.U.V. was parked near her house, and that a man on the other side of the street seemed to be following her. As she stood across from him, she felt an intense pain in her head, which made her double over. She also heard a sharp, high-pitched ringing noise, which was completely different from the sound she had heard in London. Adams’s friend heard it, too, and felt the pressure in her head, though not as acutely. Adams reported the incident to White House security officials. This time, they were very concerned. Robert O’Brien, the new national-security adviser, thought that high-level officials like him, and Cabinet members, were relatively safe, but that other government employees—special assistants, schedulers, diplomats—who had access to valuable information by the nature of their jobs, were the main targets of whoever or whatever was causing the syndrome.

Pottinger, an expert on China, had served on the N.S.C. since 2017. He said that when he first got wind of the cases in Havana he thought that North Korea might be the culprit. But a government expert told him, “This is Russia’s M.O.” Pottinger knew Adams and Banks from various White House trips. He’d noticed that Banks seemed to suffer on flights they’d taken together. When he moved into Kupperman’s office in the West Wing, he began running into both of them on a regular basis. “You can’t ignore it when it’s people you see walking in the hallway every day,” he told me.

O’Brien and Pottinger both thought that the problem needed a new set of eyes—from the Pentagon. According to a former Trump Administration official, O’Brien thought that “it wouldn’t hurt for the C.I.A. to have some competition.” In March, 2020, O’Brien and Pottinger asked Mark Vandroff, a retired Navy officer who served as the senior director for defense policy at the N.S.C., to convene a series of meetings on the Havana Syndrome, which would be attended by officials from the Pentagon and other government agencies.

The timing was inauspicious. Government agencies were struggling to operate at full capacity during the pandemic, and officials, working partly from home, didn’t always have access to secure communications that would allow them to deal with classified materials. In general, the agencies were hesitant to share information with one another. “A lot of agencies stovepiped their data to protect employees’ privacy,” Bill Evanina, who until this year served as the director of the National Counterintelligence and Security Center, or N.C.S.C., told me. This was especially true of the C.I.A., which needed to protect the identities of any officers working undercover. “There was really no way to ascertain the depth and breadth of the potential issue,” Evanina said.

Even the data that could be shared was wildly inconsistent. The agencies had their own internal tallies of possible Havana Syndrome cases, but there was no common set of criteria for determining what counted as a case and what did not. “Every agency had their own idea of where to put the bar,” a former N.S.C. official told me. The agencies came up with a more standardized set of criteria, and the N.C.S.C. compiled reports of possible cases across the government. (Members of the N.C.S.C. have a high level of security clearance, which made the C.I.A. more comfortable sharing information with them.)

In the fall of 2020, Vandroff and his colleagues were shocked by the new cases that came rolling in. One of the most dramatic episodes involved a U.S. military officer stationed in a country with a large Russian presence. As the officer pulled his car into a busy intersection, he suddenly felt as though his head were going to explode. His two-year-old son, in a car seat in the back, started screaming. As the officer sped out of the intersection, the pressure in his head ceased, and his son went quiet. A remarkably similar incident was reported by a C.I.A. officer who was stationed in the same city, and who had no connection to the military officer.

Geolocation data, which is based on signals from electronic devices, indicated that both victims had been in the vicinity of G.R.U. vehicles when they began experiencing symptoms. Some officials believed that this was a smoking gun, and were annoyed by what they saw as the C.I.A.’s and the State Department’s reluctance to call out the Russians. “We’ve talked enough about this,” Chris Miller, the acting Secretary of Defense, said. “Let’s get after it. I mean, this is bullshit. Something’s going on. I thought we were well beyond the phase where we thought it was an unexplained mania or any shit like that.”

The Pentagon assembled its own task force. Part of Miller’s goal was to draw up “response options”—actions that the U.S. could take to deter Russia from targeting American officials. He and his allies wanted U.S. spies to harass and intimidate their Russian counterparts with various tactics—slashing G.R.U. officers’ tires, for example, or leaving threatening messages for them in their homes and in their cars. But career professionals at the Pentagon objected, saying that the C.I.A. still wasn’t certain that the Russians were responsible. “You’re not going to jack up another major power, certainly not publicly, and you’re not going to do something retaliatory unless you’ve really got the goods,” the former N.S.C. official told me. More than four years have passed since the initial incidents in Havana, and the government still doesn’t have the goods.

There have been developments outside the government, however. In December, 2020, Pottinger convened a meeting in which top officials were briefed by a Stanford University professor of medicine and microbiology named David Relman, who had served as the chairman of a committee formed by the National Academy of Sciences to study the Havana Syndrome. Relman’s committee issued a report in which it concluded that the symptoms of many of the victims were consistent with exposure to pulsed microwave radiation. The report also mentioned Russia in the context of the country’s long history of experimentation with microwave technology. Though the language in the report was carefully hedged, Pottinger said, “that was the first thing that anybody could look at and hold tangibly and say, ‘At least now we know it’s not pesticides.’ ”

After Joe Biden was elected, his transition team was briefed by Vandroff and other officials on the Havana Syndrome mystery. Members of the incoming Administration were alarmed by what they learned. During the Senate confirmation hearing of William Burns, Biden’s nominee for C.I.A. director, Burns described the Havana Syndrome cases as “attacks.” Though he subsequently became more circumspect in public, calling them “anomalous health incidents,” Burns, who served twice in Moscow as a leading diplomat, has privately told his colleagues in the Administration and members of Congress that he believes these were attacks, potentially employing directed-energy devices designed to collect intelligence, and that these devices could cause harm to human beings. Burns, who believes that the C.I.A. failed to direct enough intelligence resources to the investigation under Trump, has assembled a new “targeting team” of senior analysts and operators, to try to answer two questions as quickly as possible: What is causing this, and who is responsible?

Burns’s team considers the geolocation data a possible lead, though it’s hardly conclusive. There have been only a handful of cases in which G.R.U. vehicles were found nearby, and all of them have occurred in countries where it is common for G.R.U. operatives to tail American officials as they’re leaving their homes or U.S. Embassy grounds.

U.S. national-security agencies have a program under way to develop effective countermeasures. They are currently looking into what it might take to build a device that can cause brain injuries similar to those which have been observed in Havana Syndrome patients. As part of that effort, scientists at a military laboratory are planning on exposing primates to pulsed microwave radiation and then studying their brains.

Relman, the Stanford professor, has advised that government agencies start collecting blood samples from their employees on a regular basis, so that, if any of them get sick, doctors can test for anomalies. The C.I.A. has also expanded the number of doctors devoted to treating possible Havana Syndrome victims. “We’re throwing the best analysts and operators that we have at this problem,” Burns recently told members of Congress. “We’re making it amongst the highest priorities we have for collection. But I can’t tell you with a straight face that I know conclusively today what caused this and who’s responsible.”

For four years, C.I.A. analysts knew that Trump and his closest political allies didn’t want to see intelligence that pointed a critical finger at Russia. But President Biden is more willing to call out Vladimir Putin. Burns has reassured analysts that, regardless of what they find, they shouldn’t fear a backlash from the Biden White House. Several of Biden’s top advisers have said, in closed-door meetings, that they believe the C.I.A. will eventually be able to trace the Havana Syndrome to Russia.

In 2020, Adrian Banks visited the doctors at the University of Pennsylvania, who found “suspected scar tissue and damage to the ear, possibly caused by significant sinus and ear infections.” More recently, Banks has been diagnosed as having hearing loss, and told a colleague, “I have ringing in my ear and pressure changes. I have migraines frequently. I get dizzy. I am still struggling.” Adams, too, is still experiencing health problems.

The N.S.C. official who fell ill in November, 2020, on the White House grounds continues to suffer, on occasion, from “excruciating” migraines and cognitive problems, including difficulty with his memory. “What is so incredibly frustrating and demoralizing about the experience is the lack of definitiveness,” he told a colleague. “At the end of the day, I can’t prove this happened to me. But the uncertainty, the derailment, the ongoing effects personally and to my career—those are real.” ♦
Published in the print edition of the May 31, 2021, issue, with the headline “Stealth Mode.”
Adam Entous There have been at least a hundred and thirty possible cases around the world.Illustration by Timo Lenzen

During the final weeks of the Trump Administration, a senior official on the National Security Council sat at his desk in the Eisenhower Executive Office Building, across from the West Wing, on the White House grounds. It was mid-November, and he had recently returned from a work trip abroad. At the end of the day, he left the building and headed toward his car, which was parked a few hundred yards away, along the Ellipse, between the White House and the Washington Monument. As he walked, he began to hear a ringing in his ears. His body went numb, and he had trouble controlling the movement of his legs and his fingers. Trying to speak to a passerby, he had difficulty forming words. “It came on very suddenly,” the official recalled later, while describing the experience to a colleague. “In a matter of about seven minutes, I went from feeling completely fine to thinking, Oh, something’s not right, to being very, very worried and actually thinking I was going to die.”

He fell to the ground before he reached his car, and realized that he was in no condition to drive. Instead, he made his way to Constitution Avenue, where he hoped to hail a taxi. He managed to open the Lyft app on his phone, and ordered a driver, who took him to the hospital. When he arrived at the emergency room, the official thought, I’m probably not walking out of here.

He approached the reception desk. “Are you on drugs?” a doctor asked him.

The official shook his head. He was led to an examination room. Hospital staff found his White House identification card in his pocket, and three cell phones, one of which they used to call his wife. They thought he might be having a stroke, but an MRI ruled it out. Blood tests also turned up nothing unusual. The official, who was in his mid-thirties, had no preëxisting conditions. The doctors were at a loss, but told him they suspected that he had suffered a “massive migraine with aura.”

It took about two hours for his speech to begin to return. When he checked out of the hospital, the next day, he still had a pounding headache, but was soon able to go back to work. Several days later, a colleague called him to discuss suspected cases of the Havana Syndrome, a mysterious ailment that had first affected dozens of U.S. officials in Cuba, and which now appeared to be spreading. The N.S.C. official didn’t think that he was suffering from the Havana Syndrome; it seemed outlandish that someone would be struck while on the grounds of the White House. But, as his colleague described some of the more severe cases that had been reported, it occurred to the official that this might be his problem. “Look, this is probably nothing,” he told his colleague, “but what you described sounds kind of like what happened to me.”

Three years ago, my colleague Jon Lee Anderson and I published a piece in The New Yorker about the first Havana Syndrome incidents among C.I.A. and State Department employees. Beginning in December, 2016, officials described being bombarded by waves of pressure in their heads. Some said they heard sounds resembling an immense swarm of cicadas, following them from room to room—but when they opened a door to the outside the sounds abruptly stopped. A few reported feeling as if they were standing in an invisible beam of energy. The aftereffects ranged: debilitating headaches; tinnitus; loss of vision and hearing; vertigo; brain fog; loss of balance and muscle control. For some, the symptoms went away quickly; for others, they have persisted. The experiences have varied to such an extent that government doctors have struggled to form a coherent diagnosis, and many of the patients have been met with skepticism both inside and outside the government.

One of the most convincing early cases involved a senior C.I.A. officer who had flown to Cuba, in secret, to meet with colleagues there. In her room at the Hotel Nacional, in August, 2017, the officer awoke with a start to a low humming noise and a feeling of intense pressure in her head. She asked a colleague who came to her room if he heard anything, but he did not. A few days later, after she returned to C.I.A. headquarters, she began to have trouble with her eyesight and her balance, making it impossible to read or to drive. At the time, the officer was the highest-ranking member of the C.I.A. to become ill with the syndrome. The incident persuaded Mike Pompeo, the C.I.A. director, to shut down the agency’s station in Havana, and Rex Tillerson, the Secretary of State, followed suit, pulling U.S. diplomats out of the country. Some government employees, who were uninjured and invested in their assignments, considered the withdrawal an overreaction. The result was confusion, division, and anger.

After the events in Cuba, there were a few potentially related incidents that the C.I.A. tried to handle internally; one of these involved an intelligence officer who, in late 2017, woke up in a hotel room in Moscow with severe vertigo. (A C.I.A. doctor told him, “This isn’t it,” referring to the Havana Syndrome.) It wasn’t until the summer of 2020, more than a year after two White House staff members reported Havana Syndrome-like episodes, that their bosses decided to conduct a government-wide analysis, essentially reopening a cold case.

They have discovered that what began with several dozen spies and diplomats in Havana now encompasses more than a hundred and thirty possible cases, from Colombia to Kyrgyzstan and Uzbekistan to Austria, in addition to the United States and other countries. At least four of the cases involve Trump White House officials, two of whom say they had episodes on the Ellipse. The C.I.A. accounts for some fifty cases. The rest are mostly U.S. military and State Department personnel and their family members.

Top officials in both the Trump and the Biden Administrations privately suspect that Russia is responsible for the Havana Syndrome. Their working hypothesis is that agents of the G.R.U., the Russian military’s intelligence service, have been aiming microwave-radiation devices at U.S. officials to collect intelligence from their computers and cell phones, and that these devices can cause serious harm to the people they target. Yet during the past four years U.S. intelligence agencies have been unable to find any evidence to back up this theory, let alone sufficient proof to publicly accuse Russia. “Intelligence is an imperfect science,” a U.S. intelligence official told me. “It’s what you know, and it can change in a blink of an eye.” There is still disagreement about how to refer to the incidents. Privately, officials characterize them as “attacks.” Publicly, they refer to them as “anomalous health incidents.”

In late May, 2019, a large group of White House officials checked into an InterContinental Hotel in London, where they prepared for President Donald Trump’s state visit. Before dawn on the day of Trump’s arrival, Sandra Adams, a mid-level White House staffer, collected a sheaf of documents that had arrived overnight for her team, and had a quick breakfast in the hotel dining room. When she returned to her room, overlooking Green Park, she pulled open the curtains and settled into a chair to read. Suddenly, a ringing sound, annoying at first, then distinctly painful, seemed to envelop her. When she left the room, her ears continued ringing.

Video From The New Yorker

 

Later in the trip, she invited a more junior White House staff member, Adrian Banks, to hang out with her in her hotel room before the two went to dinner. (The names Sandra Adams and Adrian Banks are pseudonyms.) As they chatted on the couch, Adams again heard the sound, and felt an acute pressure in her head, as did Banks. They rushed out of the room and into the hallway, where the sound and the pressure subsided. But for the rest of the trip both officials suffered migraines.

When the delegation returned to Washington, Adams described the incident to a special White House office responsible for tracking security threats. She was told that what had happened to Banks and her was classified, which meant that they were not supposed to tell anyone, including their doctors, about their experience in London. They visited doctors at the White House Medical Unit, who thought that Adams and Banks were suffering from ordinary headaches and sinus infections that had potentially been brought on by stress. The doctors suggested that they take ibuprofen and decongestants and get some rest. As the weeks passed, Adams’s ears and lymph nodes became more swollen, her migraines grew worse, and she felt as if she had strep throat. Banks continued to have headaches, too. Their symptoms persisted despite repeated visits to private physicians and urgent-care clinics. Adams told a colleague, “No one seemed to take it seriously.”

In the cramped warrens of the West Wing, Adams and Banks would often cross paths with Charles Kupperman, the deputy national-security adviser and a veteran of the Reagan White House. In 1978, Kupperman, a hard-liner in Russian affairs, wrote an article cautioning Americans that “the ability of the U.S. to defend itself is in doubt” because of the “size, sophistication and rate of growth of Soviet military power.” When the Soviet Union collapsed, in 1991, he was the president of Xsirius Superconductivity, a company working on the use of microwave technology to allow helicopters to detect radiation from air-defense radar systems.

Kupperman joined the N.S.C. staff in April, 2018, as a top policy aide to John Bolton, Trump’s national-security adviser. Early in his tenure, Kupperman told Bolton that he wanted to take on the Havana Syndrome and “drive it into the ground.” He had no proof, but he was convinced that the Russians were behind the attacks, and that they were using technology that the K.G.B. had devised during the Cold War. “The Russians have a very good capability in microwave weaponry,” Kupperman told me.

The victims in Cuba had been spies and diplomats, so the Havana Syndrome investigation was being led by the C.I.A. and the State Department. In the spring of 2018, both agencies were in a period of transition; Trump fired Tillerson and nominated Pompeo to replace him as Secretary of State, and Gina Haspel succeeded Pompeo as the director of the C.I.A. She and her deputy, Vaughn Bishop, visited the White House for meetings, and Kupperman would pull them aside to discuss the Havana Syndrome, with which he had become obsessed. He pressed them for information, but they repeatedly told him that they didn’t have “anything new.” The intelligence agencies, Kupperman said, “didn’t really make it a priority to use all of their resources and accesses to figure this out as quickly as they could.” He added, of Haspel, “She was skeptical that it was real, and, once she was, the rest of that organization took its cue.”

Haspel wasn’t the only one who seemed unconvinced. After the initial incidents in Havana, the F.B.I. sent a team of agents to the city to try to figure out what might be causing the illnesses. They found no dispositive evidence of any attacks, although by the time they arrived the theoretical perpetrators would have had ample opportunity to conceal any evidence of wrongdoing. In addition, profilers with the F.B.I.’s Behavioral Analysis Unit conducted assessments of the victims. The unit presented its findings to State Department officials, including John Sullivan, a Deputy Secretary and the head of a task force that the department had set up to look into the syndrome. The profilers’ assessment was that the victims were suffering from a mass psychogenic illness, a condition in which a group of people, often thinking that they have been exposed to something dangerous, begin to feel sick at the same time.

But, when a State Department official asked how many victims the profilers had interviewed, the unit explained that it hadn’t spoken to any of them directly. The unit’s conclusions were based on transcripts of previous interviews that the F.B.I. had done with the patients, and on “patient histories” compiled by the victims’ doctors, including neuropsychologists and other specialists, who had already ruled out the idea of a mass psychogenic illness: many of the victims didn’t know about the other people who were sick, and their bodies couldn’t have feigned some of the symptoms they were exhibiting.

Bolton, like Kupperman, believed that the Havana Syndrome was real, and he initially thought that either Russia or China was responsible. By the summer of 2018, he’d landed on Russia; more possible cases were reported by U.S. diplomats at the consulate in Guangzhou, and Bolton didn’t think that the Chinese would take such action on their home turf. Bolton told me that Pompeo said, “I’ve looked at this since the Administration started. Nobody can figure out what’s going on.” Bolton then met with officials from the C.I.A. “They couldn’t reach agreement on who did it,” Bolton told me. “In fact, they couldn’t reach agreement on whether it was real.” He went on, “I told them, ‘Look, as far as I am concerned, the fact that we had this happen not just in Cuba—though that was the biggest collection of cases—but in China, it seems to me this ought to be a high priority.’ And they said, ‘We’re still working on it.’ ”

Kupperman was promoted to deputy national-security adviser in January, 2019, at which point he received access to the government’s most sensitive intelligence programs. He told his C.I.A. briefer to show him any new intelligence regarding the Havana Syndrome, but he was given few updates. As far as he could tell, the C.I.A. had found very little since he joined the Administration.

Then, in June, Sandra Adams and Adrian Banks told Kupperman about what had happened to them in London. He had no doubt they were telling the truth. Kupperman told Bolton and officials at the C.I.A., hoping that they would reassess the threat now that there appeared to be two White House victims. William Happer, a former N.S.C. official and an expert on radiation propagation, who was involved in the discussions, said that his C.I.A. colleagues didn’t know what to make of the new cases. “There was only anecdotal, fuzzy information,” Happer told me. “The problem was the lack of really good data. We didn’t have very much.”
Kings horseman makes announcement about the king acknowledging his privilege.
“Hear ye, hear ye! His Majesty is about to acknowledge his privilege!”

Cartoon by Liana Finck

There was one tangible result. When Bolton and his delegation returned to London, they stayed at a Marriott.

Often, when a person suffers a concussion or another form of head trauma, biomarkers indicating damaged brain tissue are detectable in the blood soon after the initial injury. When the first set of C.I.A. victims cropped up in Cuba, medical personnel at the U.S. Embassy in Havana drew their blood and placed the samples in a refrigerator. Researchers planned to check the samples for blood biomarkers. But in September, 2017, when Hurricane Irma hit Cuba, the Embassy lost power, and the refrigerated samples were spoiled.

The opportunity to do blood tests was lost, but specialists at the University of Pennsylvania’s Center for Brain Injury and Repair have been able to use MRIs to study the brains of forty Havana Syndrome patients. They found no signs of physical impact to the victims’ skulls—it was as if the victims had “a concussion without a concussion,” one specialist told me—but the team found signs consistent with damage to the patients’ brains: the volume of white matter was smaller than in a similar group of healthy adults, which indicated that something structural in the brain had been affected.

At the White House, Adams and Banks continued to experience symptoms. Kupperman lobbied to have them evaluated by State Department doctors who had examined other suspected victims of the Havana Syndrome in Cuba and in China. A few months after the incident in London, the doctors checked Banks’s and Adams’s vision, balance, hearing, and cognitive skills, in a series of tests known as the Havana Protocol. Adams listed the symptoms that had persisted: migraines, swollen lymph nodes, and sore throat. A doctor told her, referring to the Havana victims, “Whatever you heard, those are not the same symptoms as the rest of the cohort.” Adams left with the distinct impression that the doctor wanted her to believe that she had “imagined the experience” in London.

Banks saw a different doctor at the State Department. After the tests for balance and cognition, the doctor said, “You passed.” Banks tried to explain that some days were better than others, and that on bad days the pain was more severe. “I was having a good day,” Banks told a colleague. But the doctor was skeptical. Adams and Banks reported back to Kupperman. “They said, ‘We know our bodies and we know these symptoms and it’s not normal,’ ” he recalled. “Nobody did any serious medical diagnostics, which is just appalling.” Bolton was frustrated, too. “But, after a while, there really wasn’t much more I could do,” he told me. “You can say to somebody only so many times, ‘What’s the cause?,’ and then have them reply, ‘I don’t know.’ ” His takeaway was that C.I.A. officials believed the Havana Syndrome was an incoherent collection of psychosomatic reports, groupthink, and “disparate mental conditions.” He told me, “They just weren’t going to pursue it.”

Bolton and Kupperman had limited influence outside the N.S.C. They didn’t think they could direct the Bureau of Medical Services at the State Department to give Adams and Banks MRIs, or that they could force the C.I.A. to pursue the investigation more aggressively. Also, this was the Trump Administration. Turnover was high. “When agencies disagreed with something, they had a very easy out,” a former White House official told me. “Just wait a few months.”

By September, 2019, Bolton was out. Kupperman followed soon afterward, but before he left he gave his files on the Havana Syndrome to Matthew Pottinger, the new deputy national-security adviser. “You probably will have your own priorities, but this is one you need to keep track of,” Kupperman told him. “We had individuals that were impacted by this.”

That November, Adams, who lives in Virginia, was walking her dog with a friend, when she noticed that an S.U.V. was parked near her house, and that a man on the other side of the street seemed to be following her. As she stood across from him, she felt an intense pain in her head, which made her double over. She also heard a sharp, high-pitched ringing noise, which was completely different from the sound she had heard in London. Adams’s friend heard it, too, and felt the pressure in her head, though not as acutely. Adams reported the incident to White House security officials. This time, they were very concerned. Robert O’Brien, the new national-security adviser, thought that high-level officials like him, and Cabinet members, were relatively safe, but that other government employees—special assistants, schedulers, diplomats—who had access to valuable information by the nature of their jobs, were the main targets of whoever or whatever was causing the syndrome.

Pottinger, an expert on China, had served on the N.S.C. since 2017. He said that when he first got wind of the cases in Havana he thought that North Korea might be the culprit. But a government expert told him, “This is Russia’s M.O.” Pottinger knew Adams and Banks from various White House trips. He’d noticed that Banks seemed to suffer on flights they’d taken together. When he moved into Kupperman’s office in the West Wing, he began running into both of them on a regular basis. “You can’t ignore it when it’s people you see walking in the hallway every day,” he told me.

O’Brien and Pottinger both thought that the problem needed a new set of eyes—from the Pentagon. According to a former Trump Administration official, O’Brien thought that “it wouldn’t hurt for the C.I.A. to have some competition.” In March, 2020, O’Brien and Pottinger asked Mark Vandroff, a retired Navy officer who served as the senior director for defense policy at the N.S.C., to convene a series of meetings on the Havana Syndrome, which would be attended by officials from the Pentagon and other government agencies.

The timing was inauspicious. Government agencies were struggling to operate at full capacity during the pandemic, and officials, working partly from home, didn’t always have access to secure communications that would allow them to deal with classified materials. In general, the agencies were hesitant to share information with one another. “A lot of agencies stovepiped their data to protect employees’ privacy,” Bill Evanina, who until this year served as the director of the National Counterintelligence and Security Center, or N.C.S.C., told me. This was especially true of the C.I.A., which needed to protect the identities of any officers working undercover. “There was really no way to ascertain the depth and breadth of the potential issue,” Evanina said.

Even the data that could be shared was wildly inconsistent. The agencies had their own internal tallies of possible Havana Syndrome cases, but there was no common set of criteria for determining what counted as a case and what did not. “Every agency had their own idea of where to put the bar,” a former N.S.C. official told me. The agencies came up with a more standardized set of criteria, and the N.C.S.C. compiled reports of possible cases across the government. (Members of the N.C.S.C. have a high level of security clearance, which made the C.I.A. more comfortable sharing information with them.)

In the fall of 2020, Vandroff and his colleagues were shocked by the new cases that came rolling in. One of the most dramatic episodes involved a U.S. military officer stationed in a country with a large Russian presence. As the officer pulled his car into a busy intersection, he suddenly felt as though his head were going to explode. His two-year-old son, in a car seat in the back, started screaming. As the officer sped out of the intersection, the pressure in his head ceased, and his son went quiet. A remarkably similar incident was reported by a C.I.A. officer who was stationed in the same city, and who had no connection to the military officer.

Geolocation data, which is based on signals from electronic devices, indicated that both victims had been in the vicinity of G.R.U. vehicles when they began experiencing symptoms. Some officials believed that this was a smoking gun, and were annoyed by what they saw as the C.I.A.’s and the State Department’s reluctance to call out the Russians. “We’ve talked enough about this,” Chris Miller, the acting Secretary of Defense, said. “Let’s get after it. I mean, this is bullshit. Something’s going on. I thought we were well beyond the phase where we thought it was an unexplained mania or any shit like that.”

The Pentagon assembled its own task force. Part of Miller’s goal was to draw up “response options”—actions that the U.S. could take to deter Russia from targeting American officials. He and his allies wanted U.S. spies to harass and intimidate their Russian counterparts with various tactics—slashing G.R.U. officers’ tires, for example, or leaving threatening messages for them in their homes and in their cars. But career professionals at the Pentagon objected, saying that the C.I.A. still wasn’t certain that the Russians were responsible. “You’re not going to jack up another major power, certainly not publicly, and you’re not going to do something retaliatory unless you’ve really got the goods,” the former N.S.C. official told me. More than four years have passed since the initial incidents in Havana, and the government still doesn’t have the goods.

There have been developments outside the government, however. In December, 2020, Pottinger convened a meeting in which top officials were briefed by a Stanford University professor of medicine and microbiology named David Relman, who had served as the chairman of a committee formed by the National Academy of Sciences to study the Havana Syndrome. Relman’s committee issued a report in which it concluded that the symptoms of many of the victims were consistent with exposure to pulsed microwave radiation. The report also mentioned Russia in the context of the country’s long history of experimentation with microwave technology. Though the language in the report was carefully hedged, Pottinger said, “that was the first thing that anybody could look at and hold tangibly and say, ‘At least now we know it’s not pesticides.’ ”

After Joe Biden was elected, his transition team was briefed by Vandroff and other officials on the Havana Syndrome mystery. Members of the incoming Administration were alarmed by what they learned. During the Senate confirmation hearing of William Burns, Biden’s nominee for C.I.A. director, Burns described the Havana Syndrome cases as “attacks.” Though he subsequently became more circumspect in public, calling them “anomalous health incidents,” Burns, who served twice in Moscow as a leading diplomat, has privately told his colleagues in the Administration and members of Congress that he believes these were attacks, potentially employing directed-energy devices designed to collect intelligence, and that these devices could cause harm to human beings. Burns, who believes that the C.I.A. failed to direct enough intelligence resources to the investigation under Trump, has assembled a new “targeting team” of senior analysts and operators, to try to answer two questions as quickly as possible: What is causing this, and who is responsible?

Burns’s team considers the geolocation data a possible lead, though it’s hardly conclusive. There have been only a handful of cases in which G.R.U. vehicles were found nearby, and all of them have occurred in countries where it is common for G.R.U. operatives to tail American officials as they’re leaving their homes or U.S. Embassy grounds.

U.S. national-security agencies have a program under way to develop effective countermeasures. They are currently looking into what it might take to build a device that can cause brain injuries similar to those which have been observed in Havana Syndrome patients. As part of that effort, scientists at a military laboratory are planning on exposing primates to pulsed microwave radiation and then studying their brains.

Relman, the Stanford professor, has advised that government agencies start collecting blood samples from their employees on a regular basis, so that, if any of them get sick, doctors can test for anomalies. The C.I.A. has also expanded the number of doctors devoted to treating possible Havana Syndrome victims. “We’re throwing the best analysts and operators that we have at this problem,” Burns recently told members of Congress. “We’re making it amongst the highest priorities we have for collection. But I can’t tell you with a straight face that I know conclusively today what caused this and who’s responsible.”

For four years, C.I.A. analysts knew that Trump and his closest political allies didn’t want to see intelligence that pointed a critical finger at Russia. But President Biden is more willing to call out Vladimir Putin. Burns has reassured analysts that, regardless of what they find, they shouldn’t fear a backlash from the Biden White House. Several of Biden’s top advisers have said, in closed-door meetings, that they believe the C.I.A. will eventually be able to trace the Havana Syndrome to Russia.

In 2020, Adrian Banks visited the doctors at the University of Pennsylvania, who found “suspected scar tissue and damage to the ear, possibly caused by significant sinus and ear infections.” More recently, Banks has been diagnosed as having hearing loss, and told a colleague, “I have ringing in my ear and pressure changes. I have migraines frequently. I get dizzy. I am still struggling.” Adams, too, is still experiencing health problems.

The N.S.C. official who fell ill in November, 2020, on the White House grounds continues to suffer, on occasion, from “excruciating” migraines and cognitive problems, including difficulty with his memory. “What is so incredibly frustrating and demoralizing about the experience is the lack of definitiveness,” he told a colleague. “At the end of the day, I can’t prove this happened to me. But the uncertainty, the derailment, the ongoing effects personally and to my career—those are real.” ♦
Published in the print edition of the May 31, 2021, issue, with the headline “Stealth Mode.”
Adam Entous 

https://web.archive.org/web/20210601232849/https://www.newyorker.com/magazine/2021/05/31/are-us-officials-under-silent-attack

Most ‘Havana Syndrome’ Cases Unlikely Caused by Foreign Power, C.I.A. Says

A report concluded that most cases have environmental or medical causes, but the government remains focused on investigating two dozen incidents that remain unexplained.

About 1,000 cases of the mysterious illness that initially appeared at the U.S. Embassy in Havana have been reported, but of those, the C.I.A. is now focusing on about two dozen unexplained incidents.
About 1,000 cases of the mysterious illness that initially appeared at the U.S. Embassy in Havana have been reported, but of those, the C.I.A. is now focusing on about two dozen unexplained incidents.Credit...Desmond Boylan/Associated Press
Julian E. Barnes

By Julian E. Barnes
Jan. 20, 2022

WASHINGTON — The C.I.A. has found that most cases of the mysterious ailments known as Havana syndrome are unlikely to have been caused by Russia or another foreign adversary, agency officials said, a conclusion that angered victims.

A majority of the 1,000 cases reported to the government can be explained by environmental causes, undiagnosed medical conditions or stress, rather than a sustained global campaign by a foreign power, C.I.A. officials said, describing the interim findings of a comprehensive study.

The C.I.A. is continuing its investigation into two dozen cases that remain unexplained. Those cases, said a U.S. official briefed on the findings, offer the greatest chance of yielding clues to whether a foreign power is responsible for some of the unexplained health incidents that have plagued American diplomats and C.I.A. personnel in Havana and Vienna, among other cities.

In addition to those two dozen cases, a significant number of others remain unexplained, the official said.

The idea that Russia, China or Cuba was responsible for attacking hundreds of diplomats around the world was never backed up by any evidence that the Biden administration could unearth. But the F.B.I., the Pentagon and others continue to investigate whether a foreign power was involved in a smaller number of incidents, the U.S. official said. Clusters of incidents in Havana beginning in 2016 and some in Vienna in 2021, along with other individual incidents, remain a focus of such investigations.

The interim findings left many victims dissatisfied, particularly current and former officials who have been battling chronic ailments for years without being given a clear explanation. In a statement, a group of victims said the C.I.A. interim findings “cannot and must not be the final word on the matter.” The release of the findings, the victims said, was a breach of faith.

“The C.I.A.’s newly issued report may be labeled ‘interim’ and it may leave open the door for some alternative explanation in some cases, but to scores of dedicated public servants, their families and their colleagues, it has a ring of finality and repudiation,” the statement said.

William J. Burns, the director of the C.I.A., said the agency was pursuing a complex issue with “analytic rigor, sound tradecraft and compassion,” emphasizing that agency officers have experienced real symptoms.

“While we have reached some significant interim findings, we are not done,” Mr. Burns said in a statement. “We will continue the mission to investigate these incidents and provide access to world-class care for those who need it.”

The agency has never accused Russia or another power of being responsible, but some officials, particularly in the Pentagon, said they believed there was evidence of the involvement of Moscow’s spy agencies, and many victims concurred. When Mr. Burns traveled to Moscow in December to warn Russia against invading Ukraine, he raised the issue of the health incidents and said if Russia was found responsible, there would be consequences.

Marc Polymeropoulos, a former C.I.A. officer who suffered Havana syndrome symptoms on a trip to Moscow in 2017, said it was critical to continue to investigate the cases that remain unexplained. Praising Mr. Burns’s efforts to improve care for injured officers, he added that the C.I.A. should not revert to a culture where victims were denigrated and dismissed.

“It took us 10 years to find Osama bin Laden,” Mr. Polymeropoulos said. “I would just urge patience and continued investigation by the intelligence community and the Department of Defense.”

Another victim, who asked that his name not be used because of his work for the agency, said the government had erred by pushing for more people to report ill health or unexplained symptoms. That brought in thousands of extraneous cases, the victim said, making it harder for the agency’s analysts to focus on the real cases.

The government official briefed on the findings said the effort to bring in large numbers of reports was not a mistake because it allowed the United States to speed up treatment for people suffering from symptoms. The effort also helped provide needed treatment to people with previously undiagnosed conditions, officials said.

C.I.A. officials said there was agreement within the intelligence community about the finding that the majority of Havana syndrome incidents were not the work of an adversarial power conducting a sustained campaign around the globe. Still, confidence in that assessment ranged from low to high across various intelligence agencies.

In addition to the C.I.A., an expert panel has been looking at classified information about the incidents. The panel, which has provided its findings to the government but is still finishing its report, explored technologies that could result, at least theoretically, in the symptoms being reported.

When made public, that report is expected to provide information on whether directed energy or microwaves could account for some of the unexplained incidents.

A directed energy weapon remains the hypothesis that a number of victims who have studied the incidents believe is most likely. Some of these current or retired officials believe government investigators have dismissed evidence they have collected of strange sounds or electromagnetic readings.

But late last year, officials said the C.I.A. had been unable to find any evidence that a directed energy device was responsible, neither intercepting communications from a foreign government that suggested the use of such a device or readings showing the presence of microwaves at the location of an incident.
The Havana Syndrome Mystery
Card 1 of 4

What is the Havana Syndrome? The mysterious illness, which has affected military officers, C.I.A. personnel and diplomats around the world, manifests itself in a host of ailments such as chronic headache, vertigo and nausea.

When was it first detected? Some former government officials say the episodes stretch back decades, but the first victims in this spate of incidents ​were a group of Americans working at the U.S. Embassy in Havana in 2016. Since then, U.S. officials in several countries have experienced symptoms.

What is the source of the illness? Some officials are convinced that the symptoms are caused by Russian microwave attacks, but there is so far no evidence to support the theory. Outside experts have also suggested that the condition could be a psychosomatic reaction to stress.

How is the U.S. addressing the issue? The Biden administration, Congress and other agencies have taken steps to investigate the episodes and provide support to victims. President Biden raised the issue with Russian President Vladimir Putin in a summit earlier this year.

Asked if directed energy or microwaves remain a leading theory for the cases still being investigated, an agency official said no potential explanation was being eliminated.

Of the cases that have been resolved, some had medical explanations, including previously undiagnosed conditions, while others were said to have had environmental causes, though C.I.A. officials did not offer examples. Some of the cases, officials said, were potentially related to the high stress of working at the C.I.A.

Some outside experts believe that stress has contributed to psychosomatic reactions or so-called functional illness. Many victims have found those explanations for chronic headaches and nausea offensive.

Last year, Congress passed a law compensating victims of Havana syndrome, and giving the government until April to devise a payment plan. It is not clear how the interim findings could affect that process. C.I.A. officials would say only that they were working on implementing the law, that their decisions were not yet due and that they were mindful of congressional intent to support officers reporting symptoms.

The statement by the victims said they hoped the interim report was not motivated by a desire on the government’s part to deny claims made under the act.

While some former officials said cases of similar injuries stretch back decades, the most recent spate of ailments began at the end of 2016, when C.I.A. officers and diplomats working in the U.S. Embassy in Havana reported strange sounds, pressure and then various ailments including nausea and debilitating migraine headaches.

Those incidents were followed by multitudes of reports in China, then in Vienna. Other reports have come in from around the world, including Russia, India and Vietnam.

A review released in 2020 by a team from the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine found that targeted microwaves were the most likely cause of the injuries. Victims of the attacks had frequently pointed to various reports over the years about Russian research into directed energy weapons and the capacity of microwaves to cause brain injuries. But critics said that effort was incomplete because the Trump administration had not given the team access to classified information.

Many senior Trump administration officials, including leaders at the C.I.A., viewed the incidents skeptically, arguing that the evidence was insufficient to conclude that the mysterious incidents were attacks or that Russia was behind them. Some of those officials were influenced by an F.B.I. report that concluded the ailments were a kind of functional illness or stress-induced psychosomatic response.

The Biden administration took office with Mr. Burns and others pledging to get better treatment for victims for what they called the anomalous health incidents. They also started new efforts to study what had happened. They formed a new scientific review panel, led by the intelligence agencies, to examine all of the evidence, classified and unclassified. The C.I.A. formed a new cell, led by a veteran of the effort to find bin Laden, to figure out what happened.

Last year, Mr. Burns and other officials said the agency was focused on some 200 cases that remained unexplained.

The agency is now focused on two dozen.




Will the Media Finally Learn Something From Its Fake “Havana Syndrome” Debacle?

By
    Branko Marcetic 

Yet more evidence emerges that the so-called Havana Syndrome caused by a “microwave weapon” in US diplomats and intelligence personnel was a psychosomatic illness. Maybe it's time for national security reporters to stop letting anonymous officials make wild claims to stoke conflict and inflate their budgets.

A rally against the US embargo passes by the US Embassy in Havana, Cuba, August 5, 2021. (Joaquin Hernandez / Xinhua via Getty Images)

Have you read Jacobin in print? Subscribe at a special rate and don’t miss our latest edition.

In news that won’t be news for many observers of US-Cuba relations, Buzzfeed reported Thursday that a thorough scientific investigation completed in 2018 by an elite government science advisory body determined that the so-called Havana Syndrome that US spies and diplomats have suffered in recent years was most likely caused by crickets. Yes, those crickets.

The report, commissioned by the State Department and kept classified until last week, backs up what various observers have been saying from almost the very beginning: that the neurological injuries reported around the world by US personnel, including dizziness, headaches, and hearing loss, were most likely psychosomatic. In other words, they were probably caused by stress or emotional strain, and spread to others through the power of suggestion.

What’s critical to understand here is that since mid-2017, anti-Cuban hawks, using the establishment press as their megaphone, have baselessly and incessantly claimed that the illness was actually the result of “attacks” carried out by Washington’s geopolitical adversaries, and using a mysterious, never invented microwave weapon. This campaign began on August 9, 2017, when the Associated Press, in a report republished everywhere, from CNBC and CBS to Politico, regurgitated the supposed conclusions of nameless “US officials” that “the diplomats had been exposed to an advanced device that operated outside the range of audible sound and had been deployed either inside or outside their residences,” for which Washington expelled two Cuban diplomats as retaliation.

Within days, nameless US officials were popping up in a variety of trusted liberal-leaning mainstream outlets like CNN and the Guardian to make the same assertions or, as in the Washington Post, to tell the public they were investigating it as an attack. Here’s just a small sampling of the reporting that helped solidify this narrative in the public imagination:

    “U.S. Diplomats in Cuba Were Injured by a ‘Sonic Weapon,’” a Time magazine headline flatly stated on August 10.
    “The illnesses appeared to be caused by some kind of sonic wave machine . . . said a person who was briefed on the situation but was not authorized to comment,” reported the New York Times on August 11.
    The Daily Beast wrote about “the sonic attacks” and “sound-based assaults” suffered by the diplomats in Cuba as part of a “long history of sonic warfare dating back millennia” on August 12.
    “Did Russia attack U.S. officials in Cuba?” asked Newsweek on August 10, speculating wildly that “a third country, such as Russia, even could have launched the recent attacks, possibly without Cuba’s knowledge.”

(Unfortunately, that last one wasn’t an outlier. Just this year, “three current and former officials with direct knowledge of the discussions” were the basis for a Politico report that these “directed-energy” attacks [read: likely cricket noises] were really the work of a different villain — namely, Russian military intelligence.)

Despite constant statements from scientists and other experts that the symptoms seemed like classic cases of psychosomatic illness, that the sounds recorded sounded suspiciously like crickets, and that there was no evidence such a microwave weapon had ever actually been invented, mainstream outlets continued broadcasting these unsubstantiated charges from anonymous US officials for the next four years. One particular gem was this NBC News piece citing a report that stated that “nothing like [the symptoms] had previously been documented in medical literature,” then following with a quote that these symptoms were “consistent with the effects of directed, pulsed radio frequency (RF) energy.”

This practice went on right up to the very week this Buzzfeed report dropped, and weeks after the Biden administration officially began referring to the illness as “unexplained health incidents” instead of attacks. “CIA and State Department officials face increased Havana Syndrome attacks,” asserted Fox News, warning of “a rise of such attacks” all over the world through a “directed-energy source,” this time in Serbia. “Havana Syndrome Attacks Widen,” blared the Wall Street Journal. “The attacks — and they do seem to be deliberate attacks — now total more than two-hundred cases,” wrote the Washington Post editorial board.

The fact that, for almost the entire time, these claims were being made by officials from the Trump administration, which was exceptionally hostile to Cuba and which, just two months before they first leveled these claims, began the cruel policy of “maximum pressure” it maintained for the rest of its term, didn’t seem to give many reporters pause. The press spent the next four years mostly lending credence to the dubious assertions of a coterie of anti-Cuba hawks in government, letting them make wild claims without even putting their names on the record despite their clear interests in vilifying and ratcheting up tensions with the Cuban government.
Mainstream Misinformation

There’s an obvious point to be made here in the midst of a long-running establishment freak-out over “misinformation” and the ongoing push to stamp it out by censoring independent, alternative media platforms.

Here, as so often is the case, the misinformation came from mainstream outlets, where it reached, and was trusted by, far more people than a Substack post, YouTube video, or Facebook ad, all with the aim of stoking conflict with a foreign government. If the solution to potentially harmful online and social media misinformation is heavy-handed censorship, why wouldn’t we do the same thing for these mainstream outlets? And if we object to that because we quite correctly understand the dangers to press freedoms in going down that road, then how does it make sense to keep pushing for it when it comes to social media?

But maybe an equally important question here is whether establishment press outlets finally learn something from this episode, and treat inflammatory official claims that stoke tension with an adversary government with skepticism — or, at the very least, not grant them the anonymity to make all kinds of wild claims. The case of the Havana Syndrome is part of a long-running pattern, always in the direction of laying the basis for war and otherwise aggressive foreign policy.

Not long ago, when the Trump administration was working on a withdrawal from Afghanistan, the headlines were lit up by an anonymously sourced report that Russia was paying the Taliban “bounties” to kill US soldiers in the country. Even as everyone involved denied the story, and even as the commander of US forces in Afghanistan publicly doubted it, the claim was broadcast everywhere, especially on MSNBC, and spurred a successful congressional effort to halt the withdrawal.

Similarly, the entire Russiagate fiasco, which did immeasurable damage to public trust in the press, was one part retribution for Donald Trump’s public insults against the CIA and one part a successful attempt to push the former president into a more aggressive posture toward Russia. Having campaigned on, and elicited establishment horror with, a promise of better relations with the country, anonymous national security officials began leaking what we now know were baseless falsehoods to the press, painting Trump and his inner circle as compromised by the Kremlin — and baiting the administration into overcompensating in the opposite direction, including by sending lethal weapons to Ukraine. At one point, a story fed to the Washington Post by anonymous officials spread far and wide that Russia had hacked the Vermont electricity grid, scaring the pants off a broad swath of the public, only for the whole story to quickly fall apart.

But just as with Cuba, Trump officials were more than willing to play this same game when it meant stoking conflict elsewhere. With Trump seemingly bent on attacking Iran in the final year of his term, we were treated to a number of anonymously sourced stories intended to create a pretext for this attack. There was the September claim from an unnamed US official that Iran was planning to kill the US ambassador to South Africa, only for South African intelligence to say there was no evidence for it. That same month, a single anonymous official told Reuters that “Iran could have enough fissile material for a nuclear weapon by the end of the year,” part of a long tradition of similarly wrong predictions dating back to the 1990s.

The year before that, the Associated Press agreed to give an official anonymity to claim — “without offering any evidence,” as the piece noted — that Iran carried out an attack on four oil tankers off the coast of the United Arab Emirates, then the next day reported on satellite images showing the ships had taken no damage. Unfortunately, this is just a small sample of stories of anonymous officials feeding scary-sounding charges to the press that never come to pass. “A senior US military official with knowledge of the region said Monday that Iran may try to take advantage of America’s troop withdrawals from Iraq and Afghanistan,” relayed one December 2020 Associated Press piece.

Or recall back when Trump did one of the few genuinely good things of his presidency and attempted to hold peace talks with North Korea. Thanks to the glut of cash-in memoirs from Trump officials, we now know explicitly that Trump’s neocon appointees worked to sabotage the negotiations. But that was clear long before. As the Nation’s Tim Shorrock pointed out at the time, US officials rushed to NBC, the Post, and the Wall Street Journal to distort the findings of a classified intelligence study of North Korea’s nuclear program and charge that its government was trying to pull one over on Washington.

Of course, the granddaddy of all of these episodes is the buildup to the Iraq War, where war hawks perfected the art of obtaining anonymity from media outlets to feed them lies and misinformation that would build the case for war while shielding themselves from accountability. In one particularly notorious case, Bush officials told New York Times reporters a lie (anonymously) suggesting Saddam Hussein was pursuing nuclear weapons, then did the rounds in TV interviews citing that story — their own leaks — to make the case for attacking Iraq. (Amusingly, another key Iraq War lie — that one of the September 11 hijackers had met an Iraqi intelligence official in Prague — was lazily recycled fifteen years later for the purpose of Russiagate.)

After that catastrophe, the press said never again. And yet, as the Havana Syndrome stories and so many more show, that lesson was swiftly forgotten. The mystery “directed-energy” weapon may be wholly disproven, but don’t worry — something new will take its place as soon as US officials decide to stoke conflict somewhere else.



The danger of pushing the foreign attack theory for 'Havana Syndrome'
January 23, 20225:19 PM ET
Heard on All Things Considered
Listen · 5:42

NPR's Michel Martin speaks with The New Republic columnist Natalie Shure about "Havana Syndrome," a set of ailments reported by hundreds of American diplomats in recent years.

MICHEL MARTIN, HOST:

We're going to turn to a news story that, frankly, sounds like a spy novel. A mysterious illness plagues foreign service officers who say they're experiencing symptoms like dizziness and ringing in their ears. Officials fear they've been hit with a clandestine weapon and that Russia may be the culprit - except it's not fiction. It's what some believe happened in 2016 at the U.S. Embassy in Cuba. And soon, Havana syndrome became a concern in duty stations around the world. But this past week, the Central Intelligence Agency, which was investigating the syndrome, said there is no evidence linking it to a foreign country, and they said that many cases are related to previously undiagnosed medical conditions or stress.

Natalie Shure is among those who've been questioning the validity of the Havana syndrome for months. She's a columnist with The New Republic who writes about health, history and politics, and she is with us now to tell us more. Natalie Shure, welcome. Thanks so much for joining us.

NATALIE SHURE: Thanks so much for having me.

MARTIN: OK. Before we jump into the investigation and your thoughts about, you know, the timeline of all this, I just want to say that you are not questioning that people have experienced pain and suffering, that they have been in distress. So that is true, is it not?

SHURE: Absolutely. We know that not only are these people suffering but that in many cases, the symptoms have been quite debilitating. A lot of them have had to stop working or have had to scale back in other ways. So we do know that they're sick. We do believe that they're ill. The question is, what's driving these symptoms?

MARTIN: So that being said, could you just briefly tell us what the government and those experiencing symptoms thought Havana syndrome might be? What was the theory?

SHURE: Sure. For a long time, the working theory has been directed-energy weapons wielded by a foreign actor that's most likely Russia. Directed-energy weapons is a theory that came out of sonic weapons. That was the original guess back in Cuba in 2017, when some of these investigations were first made public. And that's because a lot of the symptoms were associated with what was described in different ways but mostly as an annoying screeching sound that people heard. And that got officials wondering if perhaps this could be linked to a weapon, and I think that the theory snowballed from there.

MARTIN: What made you question that theory?

SHURE: Well, to begin with, the symptoms experienced by these diplomats and spies are, as I mentioned, debilitating but also extremely common. We're talking things like headaches, fatigue, dizziness. Even a ringing in ears is something that is experienced by huge numbers of people at any given time. And reading about these symptom clusters, it just didn't necessarily seem like something novel or specific. It seemed more like the description of symptoms that we often call general malaise, things that can be very, very difficult to go through but that don't necessarily point to anything specific or nefarious. And when you take that away, when you take away the assumption that these people are suffering from something specific that was caused by a specific exposure and they're all suffering from the same thing, if that's not true, then a lot of this narrative falls apart.

MARTIN: You know, it was interesting to me that you said at one point in your reporting on this that - you said that those in the national security space, you know, a lot of reporters - some reporters, certainly officials who are - have people who work in foreign policy and national security as their constituents, for example, embraced the Havana syndrome theory but that a lot of health and science reporters and analysts and researchers really did not. And I was just wondering about that. Could you talk a little bit about why you think that might be?

SHURE: Yeah. I think it is a red flag and something that stood out to me that this story was being almost exclusively pushed by national security reporters and not by people who report on health topics. And, you know, speaking to people who do health reporting or, you know, what little titters you saw online, I think that there was a lot more skepticism. There were some questions of, hey, wait a minute; why would you think that migraines point to a microwave attack? It just doesn't add up. And I think that there are a few reasons for that. I think that some people really got swept away in the excitement of the story and that it led them to, you know, drop skepticism that they really should have had about this.

MARTIN: So before we let you go, you write about health and politics. That's a difficult balance because you want to cover what's going on in the world. You want to do that in a way that's as accurate as possible. You want to respect the fact that people say they're suffering, but we don't always have all the information. Moving forward, how do you think a story like this should have been approached or should be approached?

SHURE: When we're talking about something that potentially implicates other states that would require a national security response, I think it's very important that we get that story right. And so we can honor whatever illness that people are going through and be sympathetic to that, but I don't think that they deserve any more deference as to their preferred cause than did the demonically possessed young women in 17th-century Salem.

MARTIN: That was Natalie Shure. She's a columnist for The New Republic. She writes about health, history and politics. Natalie Shure, thank you so much for talking with us.

SHURE: Thanks so much for having me.

(SOUNDBITE OF CAMILA CABELLO SONG, "HAVANA (FT. YOUNG THUG)")


U.S. says another American suffers illness at its Cuba embassy

Reuters Staff

2 Min Read

WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The U.S. State Department said another person had been affected by health problems at the U.S. Embassy in Cuba, bringing to 26 the number of Americans who have suffered mysterious maladies in that country.
A security officer stands next to the U.S. Embassy in Havana, Cuba, June 8, 2018. REUTERS/Alexandre Meneghini/File Photo

The latest case and another confirmed on June 21 were found to involve health effects similar to those reported by other members of the U.S. Havana diplomatic community and were the first since August 2017, the department said in a statement. 

U.S. experts have yet to determine who or what was behind the mysterious illnesses, which began in late 2016. Cuban officials, who are conducting their own investigation, have denied any involvement or any knowledge of what was behind it.

The State Department statement said the two cases confirmed this month “result from a single occurrence in late May in a diplomatic residence in which both officers were present.” They raised the number of Americans affected to 26, it said.

The administration of U.S. President Donald Trump, which has partly rolled back a detente with Cuba, first charged diplomats were the victims of “sonic attacks” and Cuba as the host country was at a minimum responsible for their safety.

Washington last year sharply reduced U.S. Embassy staff in Havana and in October expelled 15 Cuban diplomats.

Symptoms suffered by those affected have included hearing loss, tinnitus, vertigo, headaches and fatigue, a pattern consistent with “mild traumatic brain injury,” State Department officials have said.

In April, Canada said it would remove families of diplomats posted at its embassy in Cuba as information from medical specialists had raised concerns of a new type of brain injury.

The U.S. State Department said this month it had brought a group of diplomats home from Guangzhou, China, over concerns they were suffering from a malady that resembles a brain injury. 

How Canadian diplomats in Cuba are being acoustically attacked

Mysterious symptoms reported by embassy employees point to an insidious—yet time-honoured—form of warfare

By Catherine McIntyre August 24, 2017
Sound waves in the dark. (Shutterstock)

Sound waves in the dark. (Shutterstock)

A growing number of Canadian and American diplomats and their families in Havana are reporting vague, unsettling symptoms that include headaches, hearing loss and trouble with balance. The source of these symptoms isn’t expressly obvious, but they’re believed to stem from exposure to undetectable sound waves, or infrasound. More troubling still is that these diplomats appear to be targets of what’s more ominously deemed “sonic attacks”—a deliberate attempt to harass or deter an adversary with sickening auditory stimuli.

If this sounds like a cheap device in a bad sci-fi plot, that’s because it is. In the 2008 film The Incredible Hulk, the U.S. Army used sonic cannons mounted on jeeps to fend off the Hulk. And Ayn Rand’s 1957 novel Atlas Shrugged features a sonic weapon of mass destruction used by the states to establish power via intimidation. But sonic weaponry is also a real tactic used in the past under the umbrella term “non-lethal” weapons. While they may not intend to kill, these attacks are certainly not benign. So what is sonic weaponry, how does it work, and why are Canadians being attacked with it?

How does infrasound make people sick?
Infrasound is a low-frequency sound wave that’s undetectable to the human ear. The limit for low-frequency hearing is about 20 hertz, or 20 vibrations per second. Anything below that is veering into infrasound territory and can trigger a host of symptoms, including nausea, fatigue, non-specific pain, sleep disturbances and general malaise. In a 2003 study involving 750 participants, researchers exposed one study group to music that had inaudible 17-Hz tones throughout the piece, and another group to the same music without infrasound. Of those exposed to infrasound, 22 per cent reported feeling uneasy or sorrowful, or had nervous feelings of revulsion or fear. People exposed to long-term infrasound from wind turbines have also reported the above symptoms, as have folks who work around persistent physical vibration, say from jackhammers or near massive ship motors.

The reasons why infrasound is so distressing is not perfectly understood. One theory, as neuroscientist Seth S. Horowitz explains in Popular Science, is that the long wavelengths of infrasound “makes it much more capable of bending around or penetrating your body, creating an oscillating pressure system. Depending on the frequency,” he adds, “different parts of your body will resonate, which can have very unusual non-auditory effects.”

How is infrasound used as a weapon?
This history of sonic weaponry in general goes back at least as far as the Second World War. While the weapon was never used in battle, Hitler’s chief architect Albert Speer endeavoured to build an “acoustic cannon” capable of launching 1,000 explosions per second, creating a concentrated and deafening noise theoretically capable of killing an enemy in its path. During the Vietnam War, in “Operation Wandering Soul,” the Americans made recordings of eerie sounds and distorted voices to spook their opponents into thinking they were being haunted by the dead Viet Cong—using sound to cause psychological rather than physical distress.

By the early 2000s, the U.S. military and police forces were using ultrasonic, long-range acoustic devices (LRADs) to control protesters and deter enemies of war by sending out high-frequency and unbearably loud messages or tones. The U.S. has also used these technologies to deter Somali pirates with deafening pitches, and the Israeli Defense Force has used them to pacify Jewish protesters resisting a 2005 Gaza Strip evacuation.

How is sonic weaponry being used against diplomats in Cuba?
There’s been no definitive explanation of how North American diplomats are being acoustically assaulted in Havana. Dr. Glen MacPherson, a high school science teacher, lecturer at the University of British Columbia and infrasound awareness advocate, isn’t convinced that a low-frequency sound source is what’s making the complainants sick. “If that was the case, I find it very unlikely that anyone else in the surrounding area would not be affected,” he says. That’s because large amounts of infrasound are generally impossible to focus. High-frequency tones, on the other hand, can be blasted en masse, reaching a specific target from long distances. And when two slightly different high-frequency tones sound at once—like two string musicians playing in unison but out of tune—they paradoxically create a low-frequency sound wave. MacPherson speculates, then, that coupled high-frequency tones may be the source of the infrasonic symptoms these diplomats are experiencing.

Why are these Canadians targets of sonic attacks?
The short answer is, we don’t know. When Maclean’s put this question to Global Affairs Canada, a department spokesperson responded via email, simply saying: “The government is actively working—including with U.S. and Cuban authorities—to ascertain the cause.” CNN reported that U.S. officials had searched the homes of affected diplomats, but couldn’t find any source of the sonic attacks. The article also notes that the “sophistication of the attack has led U.S. officials to suspect a third country is involved, perhaps seeking payback against the United States and Canada or to drive a wedge between those countries and Cuba,” suggesting Russia, China, North Korea, Venezuela or Iran as possible culprits.


US stops issuing visas in Cuba, cuts embassy staff, urges no travel to island
Fox News

    Facebook
    Twitter
    Print
    Email

60 percent of staff ordered to leave embassy in Havana due to 'specific attacks' on diplomats in Cuba.
Health attacks prompt US to warn Americans not to visit Cuba

60 percent of staff ordered to leave embassy in Havana due to 'specific attacks' on diplomats in Cuba.

The U.S. is pulling embassy staff from Cuba, warning against travel to the island and taking other measures in the wake of mysterious attacks on American diplomats.

Secretary of State Rex Tillerson ordered departure for all non-emergency employees and family members early Friday, a State Department official told Fox News, as a result of the mysterious sonic attacks against Americans in Cuba. 

The State Department told Fox News that because it is removing employees from the area, it must also warn American citizens not to travel to Cuba.

The decision deals a blow to already delicate ties between the U.S. and Cuba, longtime enemies who only recently began putting their hostility behind them. The embassy in Havana will lose roughly 60 percent of its U.S. staff, and will stop processing visas in Cuba indefinitely, American officials told the AP.

In a new travel warning issued Friday, the U.S. said some of the attacks have occurred in Cuban hotels, and that while American tourists aren't known to have been hurt, they could be exposed if they travel to Cuba. Tourism is a critical component of Cuba's economy that has grown in recent years as the U.S. relaxed restrictions.

Almost a year after diplomats began describing unexplained health problems, U.S investigators still don't know what or who is behind the attacks, which have harmed at least 21 diplomats and their families, some with injuries as serious as traumatic brain injury and permanent hearing loss. Although the State Department has called them "incidents" and generally avoided deeming them attacks, officials said Friday the U.S. now has determined there were "specific attacks" on American personnel in Cuba.

Tillerson made the decision to draw down the embassy overnight while traveling to China, officials said, after considering other options that included a full embassy shutdown. President Donald Trump reviewed the options with Tillerson in a meeting earlier in the week. 

The United States notified Cuba of the moves early Friday via its embassy in Washington. Cuba's embassy had no immediate comment.

Cubans seeking visas to enter the U.S. may be able to apply through embassies in nearby countries, officials said. The U.S. will stop sending official delegations to Cuba, though diplomatic discussions will continue in Washington.

The moves deliver a significant setback to the delicate reconciliation between the U.S. and Cuba, two countries that endured a half-century estrangement despite their locations only 90 miles apart. In 2015, President Barack Obama and Cuban President Raul Castro restored diplomatic ties. Embassies re-opened, and travel and commerce restrictions were eased. Trump has reversed some changes, but has broadly left the rapprochement in place.

The Trump administration has pointedly not blamed Cuba for perpetrating the attacks. Officials involved in the deliberations said the administration had weighed the best way to minimize potential risk for Americans in Havana without unnecessarily harming relations between the countries. Rather than describe it as punitive, the administration will emphasize Cuba's responsibility to keep diplomats on its soil safe.

To investigators' dismay, the symptoms in the attacks vary widely from person to person. In addition to hearing loss and concussions, some experienced nausea, headaches and ear-ringing, and the AP has reported some now suffer from problems with concentration and common word recall.

Though officials initially suspected some futuristic "sonic attack," the picture has grown muddier. The FBI and other agencies that searched homes and hotels where incidents occurred found no devices. And clues about the circumstances of the incidents seem to make any explanation scientifically implausible.

Some U.S. diplomats reported hearing various loud noises or feeling vibrations when the incidents occurred, but others heard and felt nothing yet reported symptoms later. In some cases, the effects were narrowly confined, with victims able to walk "in" and "out" of blaring noises audible in only certain rooms or parts of rooms, the AP has reported.

Though the incidents stopped for a time, they recurred as recently as late August. The U.S. has said the tally of Americans affected could grow. 



Trump blames Cuba for mysterious attacks on US diplomats

By Zachary Cohen, CNN

Updated 1303 GMT (2103 HKT) October 17, 2017
Trump: Cuba 'responsible' for diplomat attacks
Trump: Cuba 'responsible' for diplomat attacks

Trump: Cuba 'responsible' for diplomat attacks 00:18

Washington (CNN)President Donald Trump said Monday that he does "believe Cuba is responsible" for the mysterious attacks that sickened at least 22 US diplomats and family members in Havana.
"I do believe Cuba's responsible, I do believe that," Trump said in the Rose Garden.
Investigators continue to examine the circumstances surrounding as many as 50 attacks that may have involved the use of an acoustic device, a US official has told CNN.

The device was so sophisticated, it was outside the range of audible sound, the official said. And it was so damaging, the source said, that one US diplomat now needs to use a hearing aid.
Three US officials told CNN that the device was deployed either inside or outside the residences of US diplomats living in Havana.
For months, starting late last year, US diplomats in Havana complained of incidents, often late at night in their homes or hotel rooms, that left them feeling ill -- often plagued by a sudden wave of nausea, dizziness and headaches accompanied by strange sounds compared to loud insects or metal dragging across the floor.
Questions also continue to swirl around the Cuban government's involvement in the attacks, given that experts say the country likely lacks the scientific expertise to launch such a sophisticated operation.
New audio adds to mystery of attacks on US diplomats
New audio adds to mystery of attacks on US diplomats
New audio adds to mystery of attacks on US diplomats
On Thursday, Trump's chief of staff, John Kelly, did not directly accuse the Cuban government of carrying out the attacks but told reporters: "We believe the government could stop the attacks on our diplomats."
"The question that nobody seems to be asking is why would the Cubans do such a thing?" Steven L. Garrett, who taught acoustics at Penn State University before retiring last year, told CNN last week.
"The Cubans are not known for sophistication in physical and engineering acoustics," Garrett said.
A US official has told CNN that they are investigating whether a third country was involved as "payback" for actions the US has taken elsewhere and to "drive a wedge between the US and Cuba."
The President did not expand on what led to the conclusion that Cuba was responsible, but called it a "very unusual attack."
Earlier this month, the US expelled 15 Cuban diplomats to match staff reductions at the US Embassy in Havana after the US ordered home non-essential diplomats and families following the mysterious attacks.
The move drew an angry rebuke from Cuban Minister of Foreign Affairs Bruno Rodríguez Parrilla.
"Cuba has never perpetrated, nor will it ever perpetrate attacks of any sort against diplomatic officials or their relatives," Rodríguez Parrilla said at a news conference in Havana.


 Trump says Cuba 'responsible' for alleged sonic attacks, but offers no evidence

The state department has still not identified a culprit or even what weapon mysteriously injured 22 American government workers on Cuban soil
View of the US embassy in Havana, Cuba, 3 October 2017. On Monday, Trump blamed Cuba for sonic attacks that affected 22 US diplomatic workers here.
View of the US embassy in Havana, Cuba, on 3 October 2017. On Monday, Donald Trump blamed Cuba for alleged sonic attacks that affected 22 US diplomatic workers here. Photograph: Alejandro Ernesto/EPA

Staff and agencies

Monday 16 October 2017 15.51 EDT
Last modified on Monday 16 October 2017 16.13 EDTDonald Trump has said that he believes Cuba is responsible for unexplained incidents that the US says have injured at least 22 American government workers.

The United States has avoided casting blame on Cuban President Raul Castro’s government for the mysterious ‘sonic attacks’ that began last year and have eluded an FBI investigation.
Mass hysteria may explain 'sonic attacks' in Cuba, say top neurologists
Read more

Trump did not say whether he believed that Cuba was behind the diplomats’ injuries or merely shared responsibility for the fate of the Americans for failing to keep them safe on the country’s soil.

“I do believe Cuba’s responsible. I do believe that,” Trump said in a Rose Garden news conference. “And it’s a very unusual attack, as you know. But I do believe Cuba is responsible.”

There was no immediate reaction from Cuba’s embassy in Washington. Castro’s government has repeatedly denied both involvement in and knowledge of the alleged attacks.

Trump offered no new details about what type of weapon might have caused damage ranging from permanent hearing loss to mild traumatic brain injury, or concussion. The state department has said that despite the lengthy investigation and FBI visits to the island, the US still can’t identify either a culprit or a device.

Trump’s ambiguous allegation against the Cubans was likely to increase tensions even further between the two longtime former enemies. The US and Cuba reopened diplomatic relations in 2015 after a half-century of estrangement, but the alleged attacks on Americans and steps taken by Washington in response have started to unravel those budding ties.

Since first disclosing the incidents in August, the Trump administration has avoided accusing Cuba of perpetrating an attack.

Responding to Trump’s comments, Ben Rhodes, Barack Obama’s foreign policy adviser, who was involved in negotiating the previous administration’s rapprochement with Havana tweeted: “Trump’s own State Dept has not said this – has gone out of their way to say they don’t know who is behind attack.”

Still, the US has pointed to Cuba’s tight control over security in Havana and its close surveillance of Americans working there as reasons to believe that Cuba might know more about what has transpired than it has let on. The state department has also said that no matter who is attacking Americans, it was Cuba’s responsibility under international law to protect US embassy workers.

“We believe that the Cuban government could stop the attacks on our diplomats,” the White House chief of staff, John Kelly, said last week.

The state department has said 22 Americans are “medically confirmed” to be affected and that the number could grow. The symptoms and circumstances reported have varied widely, making some hard to tie conclusively to the alleged attacks. The incidents began last year and are considered “ongoing”, with an attack reported as recently as late August.


John Bolton listens as Donald Trump speaks during a cabinet meeting in 2018. Photograph: Saul Loeb/AFP/Getty Images
Donald Trump
John Bolton chose not to brief Trump on Russia Havana syndrome suspicion
Former national security adviser tells podcast ‘we didn’t feel we would get support’ from president during Russia investigation
Martin Pengelly in New York
@MartinPengelly
Mon 13 Mar 2023 06.00 EDT
Last modified on Mon 13 Mar 2023 06.01 EDT

Donald Trump’s third national security adviser, John Bolton, did not brief the president on suspicions Russia might be behind mysterious “Havana syndrome” attacks on US diplomats because he did not think Trump would support him.
The US embassy in Havana, Cuba.
‘Havana syndrome’ not caused by foreign adversary, US intelligence says
Read more
“Since our concern was that one of the perpetrators – maybe the perpetrator – was Russia,” Bolton said, “we didn’t feel we would get support from President Trump if we said, ‘We think the Russians are coming after American personnel.’”
Bolton makes the startling admission in an interview for an episode of a podcast, The Sound: Mystery of Havana Syndrome, hosted by the former Guardian journalist Nicky Woolf and released on Monday.
Bolton was national security adviser from April 2018 to September 2019, a period of intense scrutiny on Trump’s relations with Russia, primarily via special counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation of Russian election interference and links between Trump and Moscow.
Mueller issued his report in April 2019. He did not prove collusion between Trump and Moscow in his 2016 election victory over Hillary Clinton but the former FBI director did secure indictments of figures close to Trump and lay out extensive evidence of possible obstruction of justice.
Trump angrily rejected allegations of wrongdoing and claimed to be the victim of a witch-hunt. But he also closely courted Vladimir Putin, even seeming, in Helsinki in July 2018, to side with the Russian president against his own intelligence agencies.
“Havana syndrome” refers to the investigation of more than 1,000 “anomalous health incidents” involving diplomats, spies and other US government employees around the world. The first cases emerged in 2016.
Symptoms have included brain injuries, hearing loss, vertigo and unusual auditory sensations. Speculation about directed energy weapons has persisted, though earlier this month an official report said “available intelligence consistently points against the involvement of US adversaries in causing the reported incidents”.
Havana syndrome got its name because, as Bolton told The Sound, “the first reports came from Cuba [so] it would not be unreasonable to say the Cubans were doing it”.
But, he said, “it becomes counterintuitive pretty quickly. If they wanted to keep the American embassy open, you wouldn’t attack it. That tended to show that it was some other government. And a government with more capabilities than we thought the Cubans had.”
The Trump administration cracked down on Cuba anyway, returning it to the “state sponsor of terror” list, ending a diplomatic thaw begun by Barack Obama. Bolton, a famous rightwing foreign policy hawk, told The Sound he favoured taking that step anyway, regardless of the origin of the Havana syndrome attacks.
He also said he and other national security staffers “felt that because it was possible – not certain, but possible – this emanated from a hostile foreign power and we had our ideas who that might be … we thought more needed to be done to consider that possibility and either find evidence to rule it in or rule it out”.
If the attack theory was real, Bolton said, there was “no shortage of evidence that would point to Russia as … at least the top suspect”.
Nonetheless, he said, he decided not to take that suspicion to Trump.
“Who knows what he would’ve said,” Bolton said of his decision not to brief Trump on his suspicions about Russia and Havana syndrome.
“He might’ve said, ‘Do nothing at all.’ I didn’t want to chance that, because I did feel it was serious.”
Trump fired Bolton in September 2019. The following year, Bolton released a book, The Room Where It Happened, in which he was highly critical of his former boss. Trump sought to prevent the book’s publication. Bolton has said he could run for the Republican presidential nomination in 2024 if he thought it would be a way to stop Trump, who he has called “poison” to the Republican party.
Speaking to The Sound, Bolton suggested the decision not to brief Trump about suspicions about Russia damaged attempts to investigate the Havana syndrome mystery.
“When you don’t have the ability to bring the hammer down and say, ‘Find the answer out,’ … it’s much easier for the bureaucracy to resist.”


Biden signs legislation to aid U.S. personnel suffering from ‘Havana Syndrome’
By John Wagner
and 
Miriam Berger
October 8, 2021 at 11:16 a.m. EDT
President Biden delivers remarks regarding the U.S. debt limit in the State Dining Room at the White House on Oct. 4. (Demetrius Freeman/The Washington Post)
Comment
Gift Article
Share

President Biden signed legislation Friday to provide financial aid to U.S. government personnel believed to be suffering from “Havana Syndrome,” the mysterious illness that began afflicting diplomats and intelligence officers in Cuba’s capital in 2016.
Get the full experience.Choose your plan

The bipartisan bill authorizes the CIA and State Department to provide employees with additional financial support for brain injuries and requires the agencies to create rules for making payments and study whether additional legislative action is needed.

The Helping American Victims Afflicted by Neurological Attacks Act, or Havana Act, passed unanimously in the Senate in June. After multiple delays, the House voted unanimously late last month to send the legislation to Biden’s desk.

“I want to thank Congress for passing it with unanimous bipartisan support, sending the clear message that we take care of our own,” Biden said in a statement. “We are bringing to bear the full resources of the U.S. Government to make available first-class medical care to those affected and to get to the bottom of these incidents, including to determine the cause and who is responsible.”

Sen. Susan Collins (R-Maine), one of the authors of the legislation, has cast it as an attempt to help U.S. personnel who have had to “battle the bureaucracy to receive care for their debilitating injuries.” Collins was among those who attended Friday’s signing ceremony at the White House, which was closed to the press.

In a statement afterward, she said those impacted by Havana Syndrome “should have been treated the same way we treat a soldier who suffered a traumatic brain injury on the battlefield.”

CIA station chief in Vienna recalled amid criticism of management and handling of mysterious ‘Havana Syndrome’ incidents

Biden also signed a separate bill with bipartisan support on Friday that directs the Department of Homeland Security to complete a study of cybersecurity risks to schools.

Victims of Havana Syndrome have reported a sudden onset of a range of symptoms such as headaches, nausea, memory loss and other cognitive difficulties.

During the past five years, as many as 200 incidents have been reported among U.S. personnel in countries also including Russia, China, Colombia and Uzbekistan.

Earlier this month, a member of CIA Director William J. Burns’s team reported experiencing symptoms consistent with Havana Syndrome while traveling to India. In August, two U.S. personnel in the Vietnamese capital, Hanoi, also reportedly suffered from “unexplained health incidents” just before the arrival of Vice President Harris.

In another sign of stepped-up attention by the federal government, the CIA recently removed its top officer in Vienna following criticism of his management, including what some considered an insufficient response to a growing number of purported Havana Syndrome cases at the U.S. Embassy in Austria.

The exact cause of Havana Syndrome remains unknown, and U.S. officials refer to potential cases as “anomalous health incidents,” even as government investigators continue to probe its origins.

The condition is characterized by a broad range of unexplained symptoms that include migraines, fatigue, vertigo, anxiety, dizziness, memory lapses and cognitive impairment. Some of those affected have said that they felt as though they were hit by a blast wave or beam of energy.

In some cases, the symptoms were intermittent; in others, they persisted and required long-term care.

What to know about ‘Havana Syndrome’, the mysterious illness affecting U.S. officials around the world

The first known cases were reported among U.S. and Canadian personnel in Cuba in late 2016. CIA officers stationed at the U.S. Embassy in Havana reported feeling intense fatigue, nausea and pulsating pressure in their heads.

Brain scans later showed tissue damage normally seen in patients with concussions after a bomb blast or car accident. As U.S. officials sought answers, the Obama administration evacuated much of the embassy staff.

At the time, the United States and Cuba had only recently restored diplomatic ties following decades of hostilities, and some observers speculated that the incidents were the result of attacks aimed at sabotaging U.S.-Cuban rapprochement. Cuban officials denied any involvement or knowledge of the illness.

Since then, suspected cases of Havana Syndrome among U.S. diplomatic and intelligence officers have cropped up in multiple countries. Earlier this year, some lawmakers in Congress urged the intelligence community to provide more information about the nature of the incidents, following reports that at least two White House officials were afflicted by similar symptoms near White House grounds in 2020.

According to the Wall Street Journal, investigators initially believed that a sonic or acoustic weapon was causing the unexplained symptoms. A separate medical assessment in 2018 theorized that the illness could be the result of exposure to microwaves, which produce energy at a radio frequency.

In December, a scientific panel organized by the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering and Medicine also found that “directed, pulsed, radio frequency (RF) energy” could be responsible. Some observers have said that Havana Syndrome could be the unintended consequence of an intelligence-gathering mission by a foreign government.

Current and former intelligence officials have increasingly pointed a finger at Russia, which has staged multiple brazen attacks on adversaries and diplomats overseas. No evidence against Moscow has been made public, however, and Russia has denied involvement in the incidents.

Burns in July appointed a senior CIA officer who played a leading role in finding Osama bin Laden to head a government task force investigating the incidents. Both Burns and Secretary of State Antony Blinken have said that finding the syndrome’s root cause is a priority.

Critics and Havana Syndrome victims have urged the U.S. government to be more proactive. A 2018 classified assessment of the State Department’s handling of the incidents found “serious deficiencies … in areas of accountability, interagency coordination, and communication, at all levels.”


Biden Signs Legislation to Compensate Victims of Mysterious ‘Havana Syndrome’

The bill leaves it up to the heads of the C.I.A. and State Department to make their own determinations as to who is covered and how much compensation they receive.

President Biden signed the Havana Act on Friday with no ceremony and little public comment.
President Biden signed the Havana Act on Friday with no ceremony and little public comment.Credit...Tom Brenner for The New York Times
David E. SangerKatie RogersJulian E. Barnes

By David E. Sanger, Katie Rogers and Julian E. Barnes
Published Oct. 8, 2021Updated Oct. 12, 2021

President Biden signed into law on Friday a new government program to compensate C.I.A. officers, State Department diplomats and other federal officials who have suffered traumatic neurological injuries that the intelligence community has yet to figure out, launched by assailants it cannot yet identify.

With no ceremony and little public comment, Mr. Biden signed the Havana Act, authorizing Secretary of State Antony J. Blinken and the C.I.A. director, William J. Burns, to give financial support to employees who have suffered brain injuries. The act is named for what has become known as “Havana Syndrome,” a series of unexplained injuries whose victims were first identified five years ago at the United States Embassy in Cuba.

But Mr. Biden’s silence about the new law — he issued a statement, but avoided a public ceremony where he might be asked questions — was telling. While some officials are convinced the syndrome is the result of attacks and that one or more rival powers are responsible, intelligence agencies have yet to come to any firm conclusions, despite the appointment of multiple task forces to identify the cause and possible countermeasures.

There is a widespread belief, supported by a study by the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine, that the cause is directed energy, possibly microwaves, presumably targeted at embassies and residences. But even that is just the leading theory, and though Russia is the lead suspect, it is hardly the only country with the technology to conduct such attacks. The C.I.A. and the National Security Council have created an outside panel with access to classified information to help search for a cause.

“We are bringing to bear the full resources of the U.S. government to make available first-class medical care to those affected and to get to the bottom of these incidents, including to determine the cause and who is responsible,” Mr. Biden said of the law. “Civil servants, intelligence officers, diplomats, and military personnel all around the world have been affected by anomalous health incidents,” Biden said, stopping short of using the word “attacks.”
Better Understand the Relations Between China and the U.S.

    Taiwan: China fired off a volley of condemnations and began three days of military exercises near the island after Speaker Kevin McCarthy hosted a series of meetings in California with Tsai Ing-wen, the president of Taiwan.
    Diverging Strategies: Two visits on opposite sides of the Pacific highlighted different priorities and diplomatic approaches to China between American and European leaders.
    Anxiety in Asia: Doubts about both China and the United States are driving an arms race in the Indo-Pacific — with echoes of World War II and new levels of risk.
    Chinese Spy Balloon: An exclusive analysis of satellite imagery traces the journey of a spy balloon that triggered a diplomatic crisis between Beijing and Washington in February.

Jen Psaki, the White House press secretary, did not go into specifics on Friday when asked whether the episodes posed a threat to the American public, or specifically to Americans traveling abroad.

“We take every reported incident seriously and what we want to do is ensure that our national security team is using every resource at our disposal,” Ms. Psaki said. “Without an attribution and an assessment of the cause for the origin, I do not want to go further.”

The president’s signature came just as the episodes appear to be increasing in frequency and some have become more brazen: A C.I.A. officer traveling with Mr. Burns to India several weeks ago became the latest victim, in an incident that resonated inside the White House because his travels had not been publicized, and because targeting a member of the traveling party of the C.I.A. director — if that is what happened — seemed especially provocative.

The India incident came after two dozen or more cases were reported in Vienna, which is home to three U.S. Embassies (two of which are linked to United Nations agencies), as well as the negotiations over Iran’s nuclear program. It is also the operating territory of spies from around the world. And over the summer, Vice President Kamala Harris’s trip to Vietnam was delayed for several hours because of concerns over incidents there.

The incidents have led to a rare example of bipartisan agreement in fiercely partisan Washington. The original bill was written by Senator Susan Collins, Republican of Maine. Representative Adam Schiff, Democrat of California, guided the bill through the House, where it passed unanimously.

What we consider before using anonymous sources. Do the sources know the information? What’s their motivation for telling us? Have they proved reliable in the past? Can we corroborate the information? Even with these questions satisfied, The Times uses anonymous sources as a last resort. The reporter and at least one editor know the identity of the source.
Learn more about our process.

Ms. Collins said she was increasingly convinced that some adversary was behind the incidents. “As we continue our efforts to support victims, we must also redouble our whole-of-government approach to identify and stop the heartless adversary who is harming U.S. personnel,” she said in a statement on Friday.

Mark S. Zaid, a lawyer who represents multiple victims, said the legislation was “a good and necessary first step but it’s woefully deficient in many ways.”

The bill leaves it up to the leaders of the C.I.A. and State Department to make their own determinations as to who is covered and how much compensation they receive, meaning “it has the opportunity to create incredible inconsistencies between agencies as to how they’re dealing with it,” Mr. Zaid said. “This is the type of case that demands uniform standards throughout the federal government. Someone at State should not be treated differently than someone at C.I.A.”

An administration official, speaking on condition of anonymity to disclose internal communications, said that officials standardized what they conceded had been an ad hoc and uneven reporting process across agencies before Mr. Biden took office, and that the State Department released guidance over the summer that assured employees they would receive the same standard of care as people from other agencies, including the C.I.A.

Victims’ groups that have been pushing for their injuries to be recognized and compensated applauded the signing. Robyn Garfield, a Commerce Department official who was injured in China, said the critical next step was to make sure victims who could no longer work were receiving proper care.

Mr. Garfield also said uniform diagnostic and treatment plans had to be adopted.

“For too long, too many of us have been treated as adversaries and not partners by our own agencies,” Mr. Garfield said.

Mark Lenzi, a State Department official who was also injured in China, said it was time for Congress to hold hearings, adding that there was more information collected by the government that lawmakers must review.

“This Havana Act legislation is crucial but only a first step towards getting injured U.S. government personnel and their family members the help we should have received years ago,” Mr. Lenzi said.


Shown Here:
Public Law No: 117-46 (10/08/2021)

Helping American Victims Afflicted by Neurological Attacks Act of 2021 or the HAVANA Act of 2021

This bill specifically authorizes the Central Intelligence Agency, the Department of State, and other agencies to provide payments to agency personnel who incur brain injuries from hostilities while on assignment.

Specifically, the bill allows agency personnel and their families to receive payments for brain injuries that are incurred (1) during a period of assignment to a foreign or domestic duty station; (2) in connection with war, insurgency, hostile acts, terrorist activity, or other agency-designated incidents; and (3) not as the result of willful misconduct.

The bill's authority applies to injuries incurred before, on, or after the date of the bill's enactment. Agencies must submit classified reports on the bill's implementation, including the number of payments made and the amount of each payment.

Since 2016, some intelligence, diplomatic, and other governmental personnel have reported experiencing unusual cognitive and neurological impairments while on assignment (particularly abroad), the source of which is currently under investigation. Symptoms were first reported by personnel stationed in Cuba and have since been collectively referred to as Havana Syndrome.










The American Soldier exists to relentlessly dominate, and impose his sensibilities, to the rest of the world. This can be demonstrated by his role in Iraq, Afghanistan, Vietnam, The Phillipines, etc. For as long as he has existed as an imperial concept (I'd finger the McKinley admin, but one could reasonably point to Polk or Columbus as the originators), he has been coded as culturally conservative. The military is floated to every teenager in the world as an alluring alternative to higher education, where one is taught to be Liberal, and a brutal process of financial manipulation and filtration occurs. Some young people, by no fault of their own, are drawn into the culture of machismo, or enticed by the promise of free or reduced college, or subject to the natural urge to explore, and bored with their towns. The primary function of the American College, as established in the '50s or so, is to be an explicit class-stratifier, and as such the lot of them produce an upper crust, petty pool of talent. Folks at this level are not content with being soldiers. A new class of soldiers had to be developed to accomodate them, a class whose very name bears his weapon: "intelligence."


"Havana Syndrome," as one might guess from its name, was first reported by U.S. diplomats and agents working in Cuba, but over time it was reported in countless countries, everywhere U.S. agents were. I have read testimonies of victims inflicted by the sonic weapon while mere miles from the White House, or while at home in their NOVA suburban neighborhoods. Havana Syndrome obeys no borders, and yields to no bitch.

The descriptions and granular symptoms of instances of Havana Syndrome are entirely variable, but the classical story, the one that every media outlet in America published in 2018, goes like this. It's an ordinary day. Perhaps a Wednesday or Thursday. An agent is working, or driving, adhering to their routine, feeling normal. Suddenly, they are beset, at the mercy of a massive, throbbing, pain, often described as a "piercing directional noise". It's akin to a vicious cyclone, searing the Agent's mind thoroughly, like drain-cleaner through the ears. It feels like a really bad migraine, wildly painful and proportionately inscrutable. Particulars, all of them, vary from agent to agent. Then, just as suddenly, it's gone. Some experience recurring similar symptoms, some get the one and done, like Covid.  Officials were largely relunctant to share their stories publicly, usually remaining characteristically anonymous.

CIA agents have a history of having their minds attacked: during the MK-Ultra era, being suddenly dosed with LSD at work in the Pentagon was a common office prank, treated like a jelloed stapler.

Both Trump and Biden administrations had measured suspicion that Russia was responsible for the propogation of energy beam technology. 

Biden brought up the ailment in a summit with Putin in 2022.

What is it really? Probably a psychosomatic reaction to the stress, guilt, and cognitive dissonance required to be a functional Federal Agent. Victims of the disease are often offended by these sorts of claims, to which I would like to posit, that facts don't care about your feelings.

The Associated Press reported in 2022 that the government had "erred by pushing people to report ill health or unexplained symptoms [as Havana Syndrome]".

Over the six or so years where people thought Havana Syndrome was real, about a thousand cases were reported. Of those, the CIA is still investigating two dozen, having dismissed the rest as being caused by unrelated things.

A distorted variant of Occam's Razor led the National Academy of Sciences to cite sonic and microwave radiation, pulsed via directed energy beam as the likeliest culprit, and the entire American media landscape went buckwild with it, getting the people fired up about a loose parody of "Project X" dreamed up by a pack of neoconservatives who got too high watching the Atlas Shrugged movie.

"I knew the CIA and Department of State were not taking this shit seriously, and we wanted to shame them into it by establishing our task force."

Chris Miller, Acting Secretary of Defense, April 2022

People who worked with Havana Syndrome sufferers acted skeptically toward their claims of a sonic ray gun. The National Institutes of Health and the Pentagon developed a two hour test for potentially afflicted personnel. They checked their inner ears, eyes, and blood, but did no MRIs or analysis of the brain. If you believe the State Department, this is backed by research and results. 

The Biden admin, in June of 2022, alloted 30 million in a defense bill to aid sufferers of Havana Syndrome. 

The CIA determined in January of 2022 that a foreign country was not responsible for any sort of clandestine weapon or mechanism, and informed the press thusly.

In June of 2022, the Biden admin arranged for so

CIA Agents have been faced with the unavoidable reality of existence, that at our bodies will fail us in dramatic, horrifying, and unexpected ways. The CIA, unlike the average American, has posited themselves as entitled to a heavy payout, built on baseless speculation and utter lies. The fact that this scam has been pulled on millions of taxpayers with no similar State-sponsored safety net in the event of medical emergency, should enrage every American from whom critical medications are withheld, by an alliance of our government and our pharmeceutical conglomerates.

Please think critically about the way the six companies in charge of the Mainstream American News Media mindlessly parrot government speculation about China, Russia, and Iran. The hand of the market naturally selects only the most outrageous claims, without regard for accuracy. Consider the New York Times' direct involvement in spreading the Bush administration's lies that led us into the Iraq War. Havana Syndrome was primarily covered by foreign policy journalists. Health journalists were skeptical, and largely marginalized as the story unfolded, like how they were with Covid.

The Helping American Victims Afflicted by Neurological Attacks bill was passed unanimously by both the House and Senate in June of 2021. Despite its cute initialism, it does not explicitly call the affliction "Havana Syndrome", referring instead to "anomalous health incidents"; it's in these men's nature to be punny and coy. Be wary of the droll. The bill left it up to the heads of the C.I.A. and State Department to determine who would be covered and how much money they'd recieve.

There were numerous real-world implications of this paranoid speculation: Rex Tillerson ordered departure of all non-emergency employees in Cuba in 2017, reversing Obamian relaxing of tensions with the nation.

These symptoms, to quote The New Republic's Natalie Shure, are "debilitating but extremely common", and more indicative of general malaise, migraines, or countless other ailments not caused by a ray gun. Ray guns like this don't not exist, but the CIA themselves determined in January of 2022 that a foreign country was not responsible for any sort of clandestine weapon or mechanism, and informed the press thusly.

Trump said on October 16 of 2017 that he "[does] believe Cuba is responsible, I do. [for Havana Syndrome]." It's common wisdom that one should not attribute to malfeasance something adequately explained by incompetence: the swift and successful acquisition of a great big bag of money from both sides of congress does not rightly smack of incompetence: it smacks of greed.