Write a scene depicting a conflict that unfolds between strangers in a public place. This conflict is related to cultural differences, misunderstandings, or false assumptions. Although it may have simmered for some time, your job is to show the flash point—the peak moments of escalation and clash. (Note: This does not necessarily mean physical violence. It's possible to render excruciating tension without physical violence. In fact, that's often even more effective.)
For point of view, you may either choose one of the characters directly involved or a detached onlooker.
Use your knowledge of history, politics, geography, and/or current events to indicate the broader context of this clash. Extensive research is not necessary, but do check the accuracy of your details in general news or information sources. Reveal this larger context as explicitly or implicitly as you like in the narration, dialogue, or character’s thoughts.
Again, be sure you include sensory images to render a vivid, concrete, lifelike world. 

wispy effete svelte man of 25 stands brisk and tall in the unkempt scratchy brush off to the side of the Apartment Complex he and his mother go halfsies on a one-bedroom within, on account he's still



Terrence "Methuselah of the unincorporated community right on the southern edge of Crittenden County most locals just call West Memphis despite it being about fifteen minutes by car outside the official city limits" Wu grew up an only child, slightly wealthier than his schoolmates, who mostly lived within a mile of the bridge and broadly thought of themselves, in the context of their own lives, as "city folk". As an adolescent he felt put upon, carless and isolated, like a misshapen social ogre whose lack of exposure to kids his own age forced that exponential negative-feedback wheel keep on-a turning. He spent his nights playing "logic games", doodling analog circuits and soloing Risk and Pandemic, Ticket to Ride, and larger projects that existed in his mind. His days, out of a lack of other options, were spent in the mile-long radius of woods surrounding his family's home, rapturously soaking in the splendor of youth, yonder, and Vitamin D, staring at mushrooms, and, if the sun was setting, walking up the great big hill and splaying out the dried-out sandy crevice up on top, bugs squirming out from under his ass and legs, glasses off. Terrence was calm, meditative, strikingly happy in spite of his lack of friends. His knack for sitting with himself unperturbed was one of the few traits from this era he took active steps to preserve. He never wore headphones, or earbuds, or AirPods, spoke rarely, and watched television only when accompanied, even after he got rich.

In high school he fell in with the Weird Kids in a class of 60 or so, which in a town that small was a broad clique you fell into if you were a Weeb, Gay, Alt, Nerd, Edgelord, Left-Wing, Goth, Autistic, and/or not White. It was the third largest clique, following the Neon Jocks and Rich Girls, and was composed primarily of White Autistic Weebs, among whom Terrence felt mildly comfortable, but certainly built up no affinity. He graduated quietly, recieving very little applause, making no plans for college or work, and maintaining friendships with no one. In spite of his parent's having offered countless times to buy him a phone, ravenous at the thought of making the young boy maintain an everpresent tracking device using one of those spyware apps you read about on NextDoor, he never obliged, as he didn't really see why you'd ever want to talk to someone who wasn't actually there, or often, someone who was. For six months, his parents and grandparents politely ignored the future, and enjoyed the boy for who he was. It was a summer that stretched into October, a time Terrence largely spent hammocking. On his eighteenth birthday, Terrence's parents gave him the American Ultimatum. They told him that he was a man, and that he had had enough life experience by that point to make it on his own. They gave him $2000, vaguely implying that he could ask for more in around half a year, and told him to visit often, but to kindly clear out by the end of the week. 

