COVER LETTERS

	AI
	
	I am very interested in making AI accessible to the public. It is easily the economic area with the largest derivative at present, and I am eager to put my skills in linear algebra, combinatorics, software development, and algorithm design towards it. 
	
	My introduction to the concept was "Godel, Escher, Bach!", which convinced me of the theoretical potential of the technology, long before I began utilizing it daily. I remember vividly how I felt during my first read of the "Brains and Thoughts" chapter, where Hofstadter establishes, in a loose sense, the way that large groups of theoretical neurons bearing one unit of information each can develop symbols, abstraction and pattern-recognition over time. 
	
	The fact that my brain engages in a broadly similar process did not make me feel remotely anxious or small then, and it doesn't now. On the contrary, I have found that understanding a complex structure, even in a small way, only adds to its magic, or inherent beauty. 
	
	With [COMPANY] I hope to work on projects that push the boundaries of what I think is possible. I hope to learn about learning in the natural and comprehensive way that comes with implementation. I look forward to hearing back from [COMPANY].
	
	SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT
	
	When I was young, I was a bit of a nerd, but not a geek. I didn't really like video games, or using the internet. I liked books, writing, and math. Despite this, as I aged, I found that the creative exuberance inherent to good storytelling and mathematics arises consistently in the realm of Software Development. I enjoy the balance of logical problem-solving and personal expression that all such roles require.	
	
	MATHEMATICS
	
	I've loved math since I was a kid. I was raised by Gen-X intellectual types, agnostic, never really went to church. Pursuing and furthering mathematics is close to divinity. It is so much larger and mightier than any human being. I find it so primally fulfilling. That's heresay, though.
	
	Covid hit when I was 16. 
	
	BIG DATA