HOW COVID LINGERS

~750 words

"It's like we don't have the same type of compassion, or the same ability to get along with people, meet strangers, or anything we used to do ... Now, we're just out here moving different, feeling different, and everyone I know feels like a shell of themselves, in some way or another. You've got to take that energy, and use it."

 - John J, Soul Glo, Diaspora Problems, 2021
 

This academic year is the last for which any of the four cohorts of traditional students at Hendrix remember the Fall of 2020, online classes at Hendrix, and the semi-quarantine semester after it. People, now, talk of "post-pandemic" life as if they are living it. In some symbolic respects, we are. There's no more masks, and parties with more than eight people are allowed. Despite this, in many ways, it appears that the student body has changed from the pandemic, continuing into the present.

I spoke with the Area Coordinator, Max Parker, about this. He was the Hendrix Student Body President on the day that the campus officially shut down for Covid. He was a Junior at the time, so he took online courses for the next nine months, writing his political science thesis, quote, "from [his] mother's basement". He's one of the only people left on campus with a vivid memory of what it was like here before Covid. I was curious whether this gave him some insight about how it had impacted the student body at large, in temporary ways that have since dissipated, and ways that linger. 

ME: How is the student body different from how it was pre-Covid, in terms of general behavior?

"Event attendance is not where it once was. The larger, more organized parties, still haven't quite recovered. One strong tradition from when I was a student was that the upperclassmen would kind of teach the underclassmen how to be leaders on campus, and how to throw these events. I think a lot of that kind of got lost in COVID, for various reasons. I mean, there was essentially three semesters where there were not a lot of events being thrown, and the ones that did happen were pretty heavily restricted. Some people were still really hypersensitive and cautious about going to events. For example, from what I heard from my fifth year friends who were here in fall 2021, it seemed like there were just not a lot of people at Ghost Roast and not a lot of people at Soco 54, two of the biggest parties of the year." 

"I think it was that people were a little more focused on just making it through the academics, not wanting to risk getting a scary disease with long term effects. There was a lot of, I don't want to say fear, but caution about that. I think that because of this caution, a lot of the connections that usually happen between upperclassmen and underclassmen kind of evaporated. It wasn't just a loss of "this is how you throw this event", or, "this is how you run these meetings", but "this is how we, the Hendrix community, do things." I had a sense [when I first got involved with student government] that there were all these really fun events that I went to as a freshman, and that I was getting learn how to continue that for the next set of freshmen. I think some of that evaporated.

"I think there's more ways that the world around us drains our energy these days, along with our social batteries. I've always kind of thought of Hendrix as a work-hard, play-hard kind of school. Pre-pandemic, it really was. You were busting your [expletive] all through the week, getting your homework done, going to study hall and office hours, working hard. And then, you know, Friday at 4pm hits and you say, 'Okay, it's  time to go to Walmart and get our juices, go to Goodwill and get our costumes.' It was excitement for the weekend, which allowed for us to be working so hard during the week. Now, the weekend is more chill, like a recharge, rather than a celebration."

"I don't know this for sure - I'm not a student. I'm not out there partying on the weekends and having fun and letting loose. Usually now I'm just making sure everybody's safe."

ME: I mean, I know plenty of personal friends have phobias of meeting people that they don't know. The fear sprung up because of the pandemic, but it hasn't gone away. 

"I always felt like such a highlight of Hendrix was that each weekend was like an opportunity for your social circle to expand just a little bit. You have your friends that you start out with orientation week. And, for me, as an athlete, I knew the people on my team. Then, you meet some of their friends from other classes. It seems like each weekend there was always somebody new. There wasn't that phobia of like, "Oh my gosh, is this person going to get me sick?" Because even now, unlearning some of that, detaching the association between new people and the anxiety of 'I don't know what they're doing distancing wise, I don't know what kind of precautions they're taking to keep themselves and others safe,' is difficult at times. I guess there's a little bit of social distrust that has grown. Figuring out how to deal with that mentally is kind of a challenge."

"I'll also note, though I don't know if this is fully due to the pandemic, that I do not remember such a stark divide in the cafeteria, the atheletes on the left and the non-atheletes on the right, when I first arrived here. Teams would stick together, but they'd sit wherever was open, and those sorts of lines felt much less sharp, though I don't have any data to back that up. I think the pandemic caused a bit of a divide on campus, between atheletes and non-atheletes. Again, for a long time, people were not socializing as much across the board, across all of campus. They were kind of sticking to the groups that they started out in. If you were an athlete, the pandemic made it easier to mostly just hang out with the people on your team. I can't speak for other staff members, but I think about that divide a lot, and the general lack of socializing, and I try to do what I can to combat it, but no one person can fix a problem like this."

"One recent positive positive change I've noticed was an initiative that I worked towards as Class President, to offer more free food at events. Not a lot of people before that were willing to admit that there's food insecurity on campus. There were lots of things that started in around 2018 or 2019 that just sort of died out. That's one of the things that actually didn't. I would almost attribute that to the pandemic, because I think in some ways, the pandemic really highlighted vulnerabilities and hardships for everyone."

ME: How did the pandemic affect you personally in your education and overall development? 

"For the summer of 2020, I had two different internships lined up in Washington, DC, between my Junior and Senior years. I always had aspirations and dreams of moving to DC and working there. If you want to do that, you've got to build networks and connections in DC itself. And so that didn't happen. I ended up working in a kitchen and back home that summer. And then, you know, writing my thesis from my parents basement was not exactly the best experience. I mean, I powered through and learned some really valuable lessons about grit and perseverance, but it was also maybe not the best quality of work that I maybe hoped for."

"I remember around Fall 2020. I was studying to take the GRE, to apply for grad school. I woke up on a Saturday morning around 11 o'clock; I had slept very late, in my parents' windowless basement. I had no concept of time anymore. After a moment, I realized, 'Holy [expletive], I'm supposed to be taking the GRE right now! You know what, this is probably a sign that I don't need to go to grad school right now, that I should experience a little bit outside of academia.' I was definitely on that track of 'K to PhD'. I guess the pandemic kind of made me realize, "Maybe getting some experience outside of academia would be worthwhile, and would prevent a lot of burnout."