
CIA Mind Virus
By Noah Morris
The American Soldier exists to relentlessly dominate, and impose his sensibilities on, the rest of
the world. This can be demonstrated by his role in Iraq, Afghanistan, Vietnam, The Philippines,
etc. For as long as he has existed as an imperial concept (I'd finger the McKinley admin, but one
could reasonably point to Polk or Columbus as the originators), he has been coded as culturally
conservative. The military is floated to every teenager in America as an alluring alternative to
higher education, where one is taught to be Liberal, and a brutal process of financial
manipulation and filtration occurs. Some young people, by no fault of their own, are drawn into
the culture of machismo, or enticed by the promise of free or reduced college, or subject to the
natural urge to explore, and bored with their towns. The primary function of the American
College, as established in the '50s or so, is to act as an explicit class-stratifier, and as such the
lot of them produce an upper crust, petty pool of talent. Folks at this level are not content with
being soldiers. A new class of soldiers had to be developed to accommodate them, a class
whose very name bears his weapon: "intelligence."
"Havana Syndrome," as one might guess from its name, was first reported by U.S. diplomats
and agents working in Cuba, but over time it was reported in countless countries, everywhere
U.S. agents were, on all continents but Antarctica. I have read testimonies of victims inflicted by
the sonic weapon while mere miles from the White House, or while at home in their NOVA
suburban neighborhoods. Havana Syndrome obeys no borders, and yields to no bitch.
The classical, dreadful story of the Syndrome, the one that every media outlet in America
published in 2018, goes like this. It's an ordinary day. Perhaps a Wednesday or Thursday. An
agent is working, or driving, adhering to their routine, feeling normal. Suddenly, they are beset,
at the mercy of a massive, throbbing, pain, often described as a "piercing directional noise". It's
searing the Agent's mind thoroughly, like drain-cleaner through the ears, or a Neti pot full of
lava. Then, just as suddenly, it's gone. It feels like a really bad migraine, wildly painful and
proportionately inscrutable. Particulars, all of them, vary from agent to agent. Some experience
recurring similar symptoms, some get the one and done, like with Covid. Officials were largely
reluctant to share their stories publicly, usually remaining characteristically anonymous when
speaking to the press (as many did).
These symptoms, to quote The New Republic's Natalie Shure, are "debilitating but extremely
common", and more indicative of general malaise, migraines, or countless other ailments not
caused by a ray gun. Ray guns like this don't not exist, but the CIA themselves determined in
January of 2022 that a foreign country was not responsible for any sort of clandestine weapon
or mechanism, and informed the press thusly. The Associated Press reported in 2022 that the
government had "erred by pushing people to report ill health or unexplained symptoms [as
Havana Syndrome]". Over the six or so years where people thought Havana Syndrome was
real, about a thousand cases were reported. Of those, the CIA is still investigating two dozen,
having dismissed the rest as being caused by unrelated things.
A distorted variant of Occam's Razor led the National Academy of Sciences to cite sonic and
microwave radiation, pulsed via directed energy beam as the likeliest culprit, and the entire
American media landscape went buckwild with it, getting the people fired up about a loose
parody of "Project X" from the Atlas Shrugged movie. CIA agents have a history of having their
minds attacked: during the MK-Ultra era, being suddenly dosed with LSD at work in the
Pentagon was a common office prank, treated with benign humor, like a jelloed stapler. Both
Trump and Biden administrations had measured suspicion that Russia was responsible for the
propagation of energy beam technology. Biden brought up the ailment in a summit with Vladimir
Putin in 2022. Scientists were wishy-washy, but it seemed like lives were at stake. There were
numerous real-world implications of this speculation: Rex Tillerson ordered the departure of all
non-emergency employees in Cuba in 2017, reversing Obamian relaxing of tensions with the
nation.
The Helping American Victims Afflicted by Neurological Attacks bill was passed unanimously by
both the House and Senate in June of 2021. Despite its cute initialism, it does not explicitly call
the affliction "Havana Syndrome", referring instead to "anomalous health incidents”; it's in these
men's nature to be punny and coy; be wary of the droll. The bill left it up to the heads of the
C.I.A. and State Department to determine who would be covered and how much money they'd
received.
People who worked closely with Havana Syndrome sufferers acted skeptically toward their
claims of sonic ray guns. The National Institutes of Health and the Pentagon developed a two
hour test for potentially affected personnel. They checked their inner ears, eyes, and blood, but
did no MRIs or analysis of the brain.
So, what is Havana Syndrome really? Probably a psychosomatic reaction to the stress, guilt,
and cognitive dissonance required to be a functional Federal Agent. Victims of the disease are
often offended by these sorts of claims, to which I would like to posit that facts don't care about
your feelings.
Please think critically about the way the six companies in charge of the Mainstream American
News Media mindlessly parrot government speculation about China, Russia, and Iran. The hand
of the market naturally selects only the most outrageous claims, without regard for accuracy.
Consider the New York Times' direct involvement in spreading the Bush administration's lies that
led us into the Iraq War. Havana Syndrome was primarily covered by foreign policy journalists.
Health journalists were skeptical, and largely marginalized as the story unfolded.
CIA Agents have been faced with the unavoidable reality of existence, that our bodies will fail us
in dramatic, horrifying, and unexpected ways. The CIA, unlike the average American, has
posited themselves as entitled to a heavy payout, built on baseless speculation and utter lies.
The fact that this scam has been pulled on millions of taxpayers with no similar State-sponsored
safety net in the event of a medical emergency, should enrage every American from whom
critical medications are withheld by an alliance of our government and pharmaceutical
conglomerates.
