THE CONFLICT IN GAZA


"If you want to help out by donating, I recommend the Islamic Relief fund, available at https://giving.classy.org/campaign/528891/donate. In addition, taking part in a peaceful protest is a good way to give voice to those who don't currently have one. American media has generally been somewhat inaccurate in its portrayal of Palestine. Our generation's perspective is more informed by Twitter, Tiktok, and Instagram, which have hosted more nuanced perspectives than some traditional news sources. I have been happy with the Hendrix community's response to the conflict. Professors have been kind, reaching out when the conflict started, offering assistance and support. There have been some small negatives, but the positives on campus outweigh them. It's important for each of us to recognize that we have a voice and can make a change. I have high hopes for the future. I believe everyone has a good heart."

  - Demah Yousef, Media Committee Chair 

On October 7th, the fiftieth anniversery of the start of the Yom Kippur War, armed conflict began between the IDF and Hamas. The fighting was sparked by Hamas, who fired a battery of rockets without warning, killing over a thousand Israeli civilians. This sparked retaliation from the Israeli military, and the war has continued to this day, inflicting tremendous harm on all who live in the region, with over 1,300 Israelis and over 13,000 Palestinians dead due the conflict, the majority of both counts being civilians. 

Some argue that this conflict did not begin on October 7th, but in fact began in 1948, with the beginning of the "Nakba" (arabic for "catastrophe"). The Nakba refers to the removal of Palestinians from what is now Israel that began in 1948. The precise details of what the Nakba is, was, and did, are very contentious. In 2022, Amnesty International stated in a report that "Since its establishment in 1948, the State of Israel has pursued an explicit policy of ... minimizing the number of Palestinians and restricting their rights and obstructing their ability to challenge this dispossession." Many reputable sources disagree, such as the Jerusalem Center for Public Affairs, which stated that "The fact of the matter was that hundreds of thousands of Arabs remained in the Jewish state because it was not Israeli policy to produce an ethnically homogenous state." 

The norm for all 75 years that Israel has existed has been overwhelming American support. From Harry Truman at the outset, stating that "I had faith in Israel before it was established, I have faith in it now. I believe it has a glorious future before it", to Obama in 2009, echoing that "America's commitment to Israel's security is unshakeable, and our friendship with Israel is deep and enduring", they have been one of our closest allies. In 2001, only 16% of Americans polled by Gallup expressed sympathies with Palestine, and only 18% of Democrats. In the past 20 years, this has shifted somewhat, to 26% overall, and 38% among Democrats. 

In Little Rock, once weekly since the war began, a group has marched in protest from the Clinton Library to the River Market, demanding ceasefire. Most organizers wear "keffiyehs", a distinctive interlocking black-and-white pattern commonly used as a symbol of Palestinian solidarity. I interviewed one of the head activists, the woman who led the chants, Hadeel Abu El Haija. "The most important thing is our tax dollars. The U.S. sent three billion dollars in aid to Israel last year, and they keep asking for more. I recognize that many American Christians want to support the people of Israel, but are they okay with their Christian brothers and sisters in Palestine being killed like that? Do they think that Jesus would be okay with that? It is depressing and isolating to feel the pain of being Palestinian by oneself, and the strength and feeling of power that comes from protest is one of the few ways to combat it. Three members of my family who still live in Gaza have died since the conflict started. I came out today for them, and for the same reason that I protested police brutality in 2020, or sexual assault in 2016. I stand up for human rights." 

I then spoke with another organizer, Stephanie Grey, who carried a large sign reading "CEASEFIRE", and wore a kippah. "I have been helping to organize these protests since they began, since October 7th. Personally, as a Jew of Conscience, I felt the need to come out here and state firmly that Judaism is not synonymous with the government of Israel, and to stand in solidarity." Stephanie then pointed out her shirt, which read, "NOT IN OUR NAME". She reiterated that American tax dollars have been fundamental to the foundation and continued success of Israel, over 300 billion dollars over its seventy-five years of existence. "Americans are uniquely powerful, because America alone has the ability and influence, through organizations such as the United Nations, convincing other countries to divest funds, to allow Palestine a seat at the table. There are plenty of places to donate if you want to make a difference without coming to protests: Palestinian Children Relief Fund, the Red Cross, Jewish Voice for Peace. I fully understand that protests aren't constructive for everybody, but there are other ways to stand up for what you believe in. Additionally I've been hosting some Shabbat Solidarity dinners recently, for Gaza. People of all faiths are invited to come." The protest was organized by Little Rock Peace for Palestine, available at https://www.facebook.com/littlerockpeaceforpalestine/ .