I am deeply interested in climate change research. I feel acutely aware of its immediate and looming effects, and feel exceedingly motivated to do anything that I am able to contribute to the fight against it. The questions that your department is facing are universal, and likely to grow in scope in the very near future. That climate change has descended as a malevolent force is clear, but the methods humanity must develop to adapt and perhaps someday overcome it are decidedly less so. 

I am very comfortable with spreadsheets and using code to manipulate data, as well as mathematical analysis. My majors are Mathematics and Computer Science, and I would be eager to bring those skills to your company. Additionally, I find the art of developing stories very fulfilling, and I find that quantitative and qualitative approaches to large problems often help each other. I earned my degree from a liberal-arts institution, which emphasized the importance of engaging and coherent writing across all disciplines, and with CS I have created many interactive, highly readable python projects for data analysis and algorithm implementation across the spectrum of Scientific Computing. I hope to work alongside ICF to spread the facts on climate change, and find viable solutions for clients impacted by its effects.


ICF is hiring multiple positions to assist with research, data analysis, writing, and related activities to support our climate change work. These positions will focus on greenhouse gas accounting and management, life-cycle and supply chain analyses, climate change adaptation and resilience, and supporting various clients with sustainability goal-setting and performance management.


Basic Qualifications


    A completed Bachelor’s degree by Summer 2024 in Atmospheric Sciences, Economics, Chemistry, Math, Environmental Sciences, Biology, Climate Science, Environmental Policy, or similarly related field. 


Preferred Qualifications


    Demonstrated interest in climate change or sustainability topics. 
    Comfort performing quantitative analyses as well as with managing and analyzing large datasets. 
    Comfort working with Microsoft Excel, R, and/or Python. 
    The ability to use research and data to help “tell a story” and provide salient information with which our clients can make decisions. 
    Comfort reading and interpreting technical scientific information. 
    Excellent writing and oral communication skills. 


This is an entry-level position, intended for candidates who have 0-1 years of experience and are available to start working by or in Summer 2024. The entry salary will typically be in the low $60Ks, depending on qualifications.


This position will be based in ICF’s Crystal City office (Arlington, VA) with a hybrid work arrangement (i.e., minimum 2 days in the office; the other days may be remote or in the office).