Noah Morris
Ferrer
CSCI 410
October 20, 2023

"The Turing Test"

Alan Turing was born to London bureaucrats in 1912. His most well-known contribution to the discipline of Computer Science is the Turing Machine. This hypothetical object consists of an infinite roll of tape with an infinite number of cells, and one “head” in position 0. Each cell can hold one symbol (which can be as simple as 0 or 1), and the machine in sum is in one of a finite number of “states”. Based on the current symbol and state, the machine writes a symbol, then moves left, right, or halts. This theoretical model helped to settle the Entscheidungsproblem (which is very related to Godel's Incompleteness Theorem), and still serves as the basis for Turing-Completeness (alongside Lambda Calculus). 

Turing lays out a simplified version of this in the paper, which he calls a “Discrete State Machine”. He also cracked the Enigma code, helping to turn the tide of WWII, and invented the Turing Test. Turing acknowledges in the first couple of pages of “Computing Machinery And Intelligence” this reading that consciousness is immeasurable, and that there isn’t a reasonable way to prove that something is or isn’t conscious. Instead, Turing proposes that a machine can “think” when it can successfully fool a conscious being into thinking that it has consciousness. The layout of the test has three participants: A, B, and C. The arbiter, C, may interrogate A or B, who can respond with typeset answers. If C cannot tell who is machine and who is human out of A and B, the machine has passed the test.

Turing then goes over many objections to the concept of AI: "machines that can think". The mathematical argument is due to Godel's Incompleteness Theorem. It shows that all sufficiently powerful formal systems possess undecidable statements, which cannot be conclusively determined by the axioms held within them. The essential mathematical construct that shows this is a self-referential statement, which is sort of like “this statement is false”, a recursive "grey goo" for logic. Turing's contribution to this revelation. Turing, with his hypothetical machine, showed that a discrete state machine has inherent limitations. 

It is then argued that humans do not possess this disability, although Turing disagrees with that final inference. I do as well, as I subscribe to the notion that the brain is finite and enumerable, and that such a process may think. However, I don't believe this counters the theological objection: that a soulless machine inherently cannot think. Turing argues that an omnipotent God may bestow a soul upon rocks and clay (like in Eden), or some sufficiently complex formal system that He notices and deems "alive" in the same way He does a human. Turing also argues that this line of reasoning has generally fallen flat in the past, citing Copernicus. These arguments, plus a slew of others, lead Turing to suggest his test as an explicit benchmark for AI researchers to strive toward.

Turing then lays out some predictions for the future of Machine Learning, most of which ring very true today. He correctly identifies that, as opposed to a massive store of information, the goal should be to create childlike, learning algorithms. In the era of unsupervised learning, it is prescient to hear that “An important feature of a learning machine is that its teacher will often be very largely ignorant of quite what is going on inside, although he may still be able to some extent to predict his pupil’s behaviour”.

The first program to pass a version of the Turing Test was ELIZA, in 1966. Joseph Weizenbaum modeled the chatbot after a psychiatrist, and despite its simplicity it fooled many interrogators. This model has been criticized as overly reliant on undiscerning interrogators for success. The Loebner Prize was an annual competition that began in the ‘90s, holding a Turing test every year on state-of-the-art AI programs. When the competition stopped in 2020, the main prize (given to a program which successfully fools the judges) had still never been claimed. The Turing Test has been relevant to AI for about half a century, and will likely continue to be for much longer. Turing died in 1954, forced to take estrogen by the British government until he committed suicide by poisoned apple, or perhaps was murdered, depending on who you believe.

