My class president, Phillip Powell, is a gauche, sinister young PoliSci major, whose real name and position I have lied about. He cusses often in his mass-email chains, and all of his girlfriends that I've spoken to have left him with horrible tastes in their mouths. The boy, Andy, must nevertheless be hailed a hero, for he tipped the home-spot off to a warrant, to be executed at night, by the Hendrix Office of Public Safety. The neighbors were upset that I had been keeping them up at night, with these awful coughing fits. I had Covid at the beginning of January, and the cough had been steadily growing worse and worse, usually waking me up fitfully at 5 AM. I didn't go to the doctor for a while cause both my parents just lost their jobs. I always had to prop myself sleeping way upright, to get back to sleep, which gave me this horrible neck pain that will still not go away. Anyway, the neighbors called in a weed threat cause my hair's long and I smoke weed. 

Now, because Andy was heroic, the problem was solved, kind of. I put the weed in someone else's car, and there was no issue. I couldn't do the same thing with my estrogen. This dude'd flip if I threw a shoebox full of needles into his car, let alone 2 itty bitty vials of some homebrew shit I got off a lady from the Ukraine. 

(Before you ask - There's two people that I'm aware of on the non-dark net who sell homebrew estrogen in injectible form. One's in Brazil, Lilian. Lilian's fine, no complaints, and every day I pray for her well-being. Lena, the latter, was a little bit cheaper, and my preferred option. No one is sure if she is still alive. Her website hasn't been updated since the war as far as I can tell. I found a reddit post, like, right after the invasion, that claimed that she lived, but that she can't distribute right now, and maybe ever again. No new information in the past year.)

I put the shoebox in my car. This was a risky option. The doors do not lock. It would suck if someone stole all of my needles, band-aids, and alcohol wipes. The estrogen's the only thing it'd be troublesome to replace. And I need some. You inject estrogen once every five days, and the fifth day is sort of a lucid, fitful mush. It's analagous to a period from an endocrinological standpoint. I am on my period right now. The medication that brings me, suddenly, all at once, to peak ovulation-type mood, is hidden in my bra. I can't inject, until the cops search my place and come up empty. Tranny periods are supposed to last one day, once every five days. Evens out, kinda, get it? I'm past a day right now. I remember, once, in June of 2021, I ran out for a little less than a month. Something like a three week period. I think if I suddenly had no source, and no hope of a source, I wouldn't even have to bother killing myself. I'd just sort of melt.

I think PSafe can't search your person. I'm not really sure, they didn't last time, when I was 16 and crying. I can already tell, though, that if they try to lay a finger on me when I'm holding cargo this precious, that I will wail like a banshee, and run away. I will be tackled to the ground, by a man who is larger and faster than me, and my 36A bra will be ripped off, vile vials flung outward, clearly visible. I'll lay there, frozen. I don't know what comes next. I feel like I'm going to die. 

