I just like making things. My favorite part of the day is cooking dinner. I get a lot of satisfaction out of creative writing, that's pretty indistinguishible to what good code feels like. Anyway, backgrounds. 

I am a White individual from Arkansas. My parents were both the first in their families to go to college, and they loved it. My mom taught Gender at the University of Central Arkansas for the first five-ish years of my childhood, and my family lived in a dorm for most of that, in an old-timey "teacher's quarters" sort of setup. 

The most important lesson that I learned in all of my math classes is that recognizing that I am wrong is a good thing, because it is the only path through which I can gain knowledge. 

Most of my friends either did not go to college or dropped out immediately when Covid hit. Many of them got straight As in high school. I do not believe that I am smart, or somehow better than them. I am very willing to work hard toward a goal, and my favorite type of goal is a difficult mathematical problem. 

In sum, I've experienced a lot of tumult, and am very aware of what I have and what I do not have. I truly enjoy coding, because I consider it the intersection of mathematics and creative writing. The trait that I value most is not intelligence: intelligence is not sufficient for me to escape the south. Only discipline, a strong work ethic, and ambition can do that.
 
 
Immediately after Covid, about 2 in 3 of my friends dropped out of college. Most of them blamed the sudden shift to online classes, but then, most were not swayed to come back after they were, once again, in-person. Many of them got straight As in high school. I do not believe that I am smarter or a harder worker than any of them, I was just lucky. I credit my ability to persist through the Quiet Time to my daily meanders through walking-distance woods and lack of usage of social media (except a brief spurt in June, to support those protesting police brutality). My family is lovely, but they do not make that list, because during the roughest part I was of no help to them, and they were of no help to me, due to factors beyond anyone's control.

Anyway, the worst thing to come of this, for my generation, has not been long-covid or brain-fog or sleep apnea. We were raised in the 2000s, a time of frantic paranoia egged on by warhawks. Conventional wisdom was to keep your child monitored at all times, discouraging social engagement outside of supervised, involuntary playdates. Once again, I thank God for my woods time. Us, the "Zoomers", were the first generation raised like this as a whole, and from it we have been dealt a fatal weakness: an inability to socially engage. We almost exclusively date through apps like Tinder and Grindr, with no real social protocols for courtship because most of us were isolated to only our closest friends for the bulk of our teens. This is pretty bad on its surface, but reveals further badness on analysis. This environment led to the majority of men being nonsexual - not asexual. They weren't uninterested, merely unable. The minority of sexual men became more powerful on the dating market in this time period, which (in tandem with lack of cohesive social networks to police such matters) enabled many predatory men to traumatize women repeatedly and discreetly. The Dobbs decision, at least in Arkansas, made matters about three times worse, even for me, an LGBT, who does not risk pregnancy.

This was exascerbated, in my case, by 
I'm sexually attracted to men, assigned male at birth, and have been taking estrogen since 2020, with a visibly female body shape, and wear almost exclusively women's clothing. Medication for my situation is not really available in Arkansas, at least, not through any therapist that I've ever had, so I acquire estrogen through the "grey market". I began in November of 2020, because I had no other choice. I had spent years trying desparately to find some way to avoid a transgender identity, due to the intense transphobia around me. This was typical for the region, but exascerbated by a former member of my squad, who sexually assaulted many of us, and who we justifiably despised, although many of our statements on her were construed for transgender people in general. This gave me a lot of intense fears that I do not understand and that I am not really able to talk about. 

A year or so after the pandemic, the Jimmy John's Work GroupMe lit up my lockscreen. "As food service employees, we're now eligible for the vaccine" - something like that. I immediately called the number my manager had linked, and made an appointment a week on. It was several towns over, but the prospect of not having to worry was so tantalizing that I could not take a later day. When I got the vaccine, I felt a shift. All of a sudden, I could think about the future without getting anxious and forcing myself to stop. It didn't feel good, yet, but I could suddenly see it for the first time in a long time. 

Nobody in my life knows that my body is female. My family would support me, but there's not anything they can do for me, and I do not want them to worry. I have attempted to tell some friends about it, but it has never gone well. I am very interested in being outside of the South, because I am much less uncomfortable speaking in my female voice in a blue state. I've watched the following situation happen more than four times: an Arkansan recognizes when they are very young that they are transgender. They come out to their friends when they are around 18, losing about half of them. They spend two years, or so, with new pronouns and clothes, unable to access hormones or social reinforcement (which, really, is all that gender is). They quietly "detransition", still dysphoric in their assigned gender at birth, but assessing that life better than the alternative. I can keep a secret better than the CIA.