EYE
OR
username: jh666
password: *
—----------------------------------------------------------------
"PRIMARY DOCUMENT AB134 RE. THE ACQUISITION OF DATA BY THE BUREAU OF MANAGEMENT AND MARKET DYNAMICS, IN PURSUIT OF THE MASS-MARKET DYNAMICAL MARKOV-CHAIN HEURISTIC-BASED INVERSE HALLUCINATION INDUCTION ALGORITHMS CRUCIAL TO GENERATIVE NEURAL NETWORKS, IN CONGRUENCE WITH OPERATION PANOPTICON"
— - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
Declassified December 26, 2049 by Simone Parker, FBI Subcommittee on Informational Handling and Distribution
-----------------------------------------------------------------
The Bureau of Management and Market Dynamics, which I will be abbreviating as "BMMD" for the sake of brevity, is the third most profitable state-affiliated-organization of the last fiscal decade, following the Army and Pfizer. It can be difficult to imagine that less than twenty-five years ago, they were but a small research committee, developing solutions for the AMFA CHECKCLEARANCE6[, which was subsidiary to LOCICL, which as we all know functioned essentially as an investment firmCHECKCLEARANCE3[ distributing the Alan Dulles $100 Million annual Research Grant to domestic scientists interested in crafting unconventional technologies, famously established by Dulles, only semilucid, with his final breath, insisting that his undocumented overseas oil money go toward "making damn sure we get the next nukes before anybody else, the next acid...". The CIA honored his wish, distributing residual funds and accrued interest on his private investments to organizations pushing the boundaries of what the government is publicly able to support, to this day]]. This account of the meteoric rise of their company, and the precipitous innovation that led to their creation of the most widely used AI chatbot in the world, PSILO, still the industry-standard nineteen years from the public release of Version 6.0, comes from a young intern/citizen journalist who was essential to the cultivation of the core dataset CHECKCLEARANCEG. I will provide background information as the need for it arises.
-----------------------------------------------------------------
ISSUE [01]
I was at the cleanest, most expensive gas station on the ride back home, waiting in line at the checkout, toe-tapping, with $10. I wanted gas. The guy ahead of me, he knew the cashier, and seemed to be having himself a whole conversation to the mild inconvenience of the eight or nine folks behind him. I fake-coughed, jamming the guy, who had mentioned that his name was "Lyle," before he could tell us what his favorite type of crunch wrap was. Lyle stepped forward, and said, "Hey man, do we have a problem?" The others looked to me expectantly; the problem to be had was self-evident. "Buddy," I started, smiling, like I was his friend, "I was just coughing for my own sake. Ain't no hurry."  Lyle was perturbed. He had already put his wallet and gummi worms in his deep pajama pockets, and the guy two ahead of me used the lull to start his transaction, with a cashier who seemed eager to no longer be talking to Lyle. He had driven off before I managed to put 10 on 2.
I was feeling full of myself, goosed, as was my three-gallon tank. The motorbike {2001 Honda Cruiser} source of rapid personal transit, was sold to me by a swarthy fellow who only identified himself as "Gummy." He had no teeth, and refused to provide ancillary - nay - primary personal documentation. He had about seven inches on me too, big fellow, charged $750. The papers were teeny-tiny, folded in fourths in a compartment under the seat, but probably enough to sate a hog. 
I'd just gotten out of a Zoom interview, with the hogs down at the Psychological Research Division of the Bureau of Management and Market Dynamics, and found myself rolling aimlessly around town, to celebrate. The Bureau officially falls under the jurisdiction of the AMFA, best I can gather, but 10 minutes of skimming the LinkedIn pages of their C suite makes it clear that it's a pure or almost pure CIA op. They claim to be a synergy-focused problem-solving org, which does nonprofit work raising awareness of social justice issues, carbon-neutrality, and partial drug decriminalization, funded by ellipses. I first crossed paths with them when I was seventeen, still in high school, laden with loathing and languor, numb knucklehead. The desolate little shopping center next to the QwikStar had a sudden pop-up in where the tobacco store used to be, ketamine therapy shit, where they give it out to the verifiably depressed and pump them full of equine relaxants, taking notes on their simulated deterioration. I got an ad on Instagram advertisement for the program, a neatly formatted chart of cities and dates, like touring musicians. I had noticed that the inlet in my town they’d mentioned, walking distance from the school, had been inhabited, but there were no adornments or identifiers on-site that made it seem like they could vibe. It was in preparation for this that I got my fake ID, the one that tells you my name is Will and I'm 28 and from Maine, which, along with a fake “Sad Will’s Happy Pills”-type label glued to a bottle of aspirin, convinced them to give me a bunch of free drugs. 
It was a six week program, where they sent us down the K-hole once a week, on Thursdays. It was nasally administered, as a thick goop instead of the standard powder, reducing drip, but inducing vivid “blue-lips” up to 12 hours post-ingestion, and this weird sticky-stuffy nose for a couple days after. I told people it was allergies, off the cafeteria's Country Fried Steak, and they said they believed me. The guy with the speculum and the jowls, who administered the K, was named Mortimer. Politics, Pop-Culture, Real Life, Mortimer was exceedingly annoying, playing ‘devil’s advocate’ whenever possible, hellbent on getting me talking, saying ‘Why?’ more than your average three-year-old. After the first 5-10 minutes (depending on the day's dosage), when my eyes went white, Mortimer would begin silently checking my vitals, taking notes on a jank '90s computer so thorough I felt it in my core, like a photograph. 
I needed to describe every possible mote of my experience after the fact, saying as much as I possibly could in an interrogationish bout of questioning they called a "deliberation." There was this slim older woman in the corner with an identical jank '90s computer who would glare like my mom every time I implied that I enjoyed it, transcribing blazingly fast. She and Mortimer were the only consistent presences, everyone else might as well have been switching out weekly. 
Once the program ended, I seemed to be the only subject interested in being put through something similar again. I ran up to the main guy after that final meeting, needly agent in a trenchcoat, slicked-back hair, square jaw. He told me that his research was "necessarily transient," but that his coterie was diligently working towards "broad availability, treatment centers nationwide," whatever that means. The man, stout, rejoined a thick huddle of men who looked just like him: all strangely discreet, well-kempt. That little alcove of the strip mall remained empty that whole next year, and I don’t see why it wouldn’t still be. I took a psych major as soon as I got out of CHECKCLEARANCEGAMMA[], because I wanted more than life to be running around dosing people like that, and maintained my minimum state scholarship GPA like I was told to, asking no questions.
I was sure, in my interview, to not mention that I was intrigued by psychedelic substances in the slightest, or note my familiarity with their Research Division by any means other than the university's Career Placement Office. I used the name "Will," again, with the Bureau, which I had no documents to back up, other than the fake ID I gave the first time. They didn't ask to see it, luckily, and I gave the overall impression to the men that I was, first and foremost, interested in helping people, allowing those minds laden with dissonant feedback to engage in the radical psychotropic homeostasis that I myself was reliant on to basically exist. In their eyes, I only took 20 mgs of Monoslintide-Diacid per day, and no other licit or illicit reality augmenters. My depression symptoms had once been excruciating, I lied, and now they continued to manifest, but manageably. I remember being slightly bewildered at the banal acceptance the men had for my made-up-on-the-spot, backed-by-nothing ideas for non-chemical coping strategies I would recommend, with one saying that I was demonstrating radical empathy in suggesting “The Secular Approach,” on a whim lauding “unmeditation” and the further preventative practice of “self-prayer.” By this point, I had a legit prescription for MSD, not made out to Will, but I only really took it by crush-and-snort, maybe once a week, when I needed stamina or to be somewhat ditzy, as a replacement for coffee. 
The Bureau didn’t ask for a doctor’s note, at any point, so it didn’t even matter, and by the same token they required no drug test. I probably would have sprung for weed at least, but the really dangerous part to my reputation would have been bloodwork. See, I, at the point of the interview continuing onto now, found myself in a profound state of nebulosity. My clitoris came out about three inches from the top of my vagina, to where, when I looked down, it was hard to tell that it wasn’t just a small, but not unrealistically small cock and balls. I didn’t piss out of it, I never would, but it sufficed. I never felt the need to be some big-dick bastard, anyway. My tits, already not really noticeable in loose-fitting clothing, shrunk a little bit, enough that I felt the difference when not wearing a bra, which at this point was all of the time. The best part was that I hadn’t had Shark Week in almost a year. It had always been light, for me, in terms of flow, at least compared to what the girls I knew in high school told me. My cramps were intense, like everyone else’s, especially when I was trying to sleep. I was morphing via intramuscular weekly injection, 0.18 mls of testosterone cypionate suspended in sesame oil by a well-meaning twenty-five-year-old in Vanuatu CHECKCLEARANCE3[{Jessica Obed with amazon4drugs.vu, funded in part by LOCICL and CHECKCLEARANCEGAMMA[]}]. I watched a YouTube tutorial in 2020 when I first started doing it, where they told me to stick the needle in my leg, but that was way too damn freaky to even think about, so I just stuck it in whichever ass cheek had gotten it last, like a baseball-man. I hadn’t told anyone I was dosing yet. Of course, I never went to the doctor or anything, because that's how they get you. My parents were pleasant, not eager to embrace the Queer Homodoxy of blithe acceptance (who is, really?), but at the same time culturally relative, unaffiliatedly Christian, and liberal enough not to send me to a camp. The reason that they didn’t know was merely that I didn’t possess the gall or nerve. Neither of my remaining friends, neither of whom I'd known longer than a year, knew that I was hopping the fence either. I don’t really think either of them are phobic, it probably wouldn't have mattered to them that much. We never really talked about that type of stuff. I remember feeling so wonderful at that point, for the first time in my life, where I had primarily dude-friends, like a dude. You couldn't really make friends with men who believed you to be a woman in high school. They always wound up sad somehow about they weren't fucking you, at least from what I saw. A lot of the time the sad wasn't even based off penile horniness, gall, nothing like that. These dudes’d be getting all post-sad in the dms about the "well, why DON'T i want to fuck you? do there exist limits to what i am capable of? am i gay? what if my friends find out? who's the fucking victim?” CHECKCLEARANCEGAMMA[]
[ISSUE 10]
I'd brought the standard phone, wallet, keys, a little purse filled with books and noisemakers, a laundry bag packed with man pants, graphic tees, undies, and socks, an air-mattress, military blanket, and several squishmallows, packing the little compartment under the seat as tight as I could. The bike was capable of going about 60 miles per hour, but rickety enough that I wouldn't go past that, out of fear of being flung. That three gallons lasted me the whole way through, with a third of the tank to spare by arrival. It was my first time taking the Cruiser across state lines, and the little glitches got scary after about an hour of continuous highway time. I pulled over about once every thirty minutes, at times into random-ass back-road ditches, just to shudder on my phone for 20 minutes and recover. The bike wasn't supposed to have a USB or anything like that, but Gummy I suppose had rigged it, with a humongous blown out speaker set, treble-boosted, rendering my rote rap playlist unintelligible, like dubbed-over TV Static.
The stereo couldn't quite charge my phone, but it died a lot slower than usual, lasting me the full way to 2201 Oneida Road, Apartment 209. They posted me up in a drab studio that they claimed to have some sort of long-honored arrangement with the owners of. The walls were off-white; no refrigerator, blinds, or carpet; a dimensional rip, out of bounds, which remained essentially unfurnished for the duration of my stay. I was content with just buying meat every day on my way home from work, cooking it immediately, subsisting largely without dairy, with sauce, chips, apples, and Caucasian box noodles in the cupboard.
My first day of job was the day after I got to Durham. I hadn't done anything but cook poorly and watch videos in the median, so I went into it thinking it'd be like a respite. I had no clue what I was in for. I didn't have an incorrect understanding of it: I had no fucking idea what they hired me to do. The official title, on the Indeed page, was "Intern - B.M.M.D. DeepMind Research Program." They had about 15 listings, but that one sounded the trippiest, and had the least given information. They noted, sort of apropo, that applicants did not need to have any experience coding, but that Excel would be provided free of charge, and that applicants should be passionate, and nothing else. It seemed vaguely like data entry, doing CAPTCHAs for 1.5 times minimum wage, which sounds fantastic. They didn't want me to bring my phone or computer or anything like that into the building, telling me, at the entrance, "go lock anything that talks in your car." I asked, and the same applied to notebooks; in fact, paper was strictly forbidden from passing the firmament into or out of the building, without being authorized by the Hierarchies. The security guy, amiable, who explained this to me was smiling like a dope. It was probably the coolest that he had felt that month, and I made some goo-goo eyes and said “wow” to feed into it. The first two hours on the clock, in the space, were a breeze and then some, just watching some sheeny corporate videos about hazards and harassment et al. I quietly wished I'd brought my dab pen after the second one, and resolved to do so the next day. An otterish man, seemingly a prick, "Allen," showed me to my cubicle. The lot of them were arranged like a spiral, about 150 in total, each one 
[ISSUE 11]
The shortest sect. This one will be a conversation,  w time skips marked as ellipses, w a Kaspar Hausered Will in the FHC under guise of asylum, going out like Alan Turing, with his sole confidant a primitive, sub-GPT gen text AI that vampirically hoovers his data, i.e., soul. Technology, efficiency, all must be forged in blood. We get some dour nihilism, and some insane ramblings implying they’d been dosing him w something at the BMMD. Will describes in detail his plans to self immolate to the AI, which doesn’t really register it, and he’s CHECKCLEARANCE1[shot to death while doing the water fountain cuckoo nest by a that old sniper rifle.]
[ISSUE 00]
CHECKCLEARANCE3[The following was written via Psilo’s DeepMind generative text AI. To this day, DeepMind’s most essential capability is imitating Will Noid. CHECKCLEARANCE1[The dialogue above is heavily abridged, but pulled from the years of audio and text Will generated while CHECKCLEARANCEALPHA[isolated in the South Fayetteville Holding Chamber]]]
This section will, to the eyes of one without penultimate clearance, give the impression of optimism, and of love and human respect overcoming adversity, tying up loose ends with a voice identical to Will’s. Psilo, the technology BMMD is known for in-universe, is unparalleled because it was trained on a dataset that was two and a half years of Hauserian, “hospitalized” on-paper existence. The fake end, if taken on face value, will leave the reader nonplussed w.r.t. the growing tentacles of govt. medicine and etc. in arbiting access to drugs.

