Can You Play Some More? feat. Beres Hammond


We had a poet come visit us in writing class this week. It was pretty nice: I wasn't bored, or fantasizing about math or anything. The lady, Sharon Olds, has got her some glasses: she's intelligent and well versed in the rhetoric that us troopish, meandering Zoomers beat into the general populace. She's generally insightful, and comes off as very considerate. I'd never take a poetry class, but if I had to she seemed like a good teacher. The poem she read us stood out to me, because she read it to us, and I closed my eyes and really tried to picture it, like she was saying grace or something.

It was set in a saccharine little cabin, thoreauly (pun not typo) described as exquisitely natural. Sharon Olds went into the pandemic immunocompromised, and hid out cooking like Kanye in Hawaii when he got cancelled the first time in 2010 or so. It started out reverent, at the world as she was experiencing it, but turned on a nice dime, and began railing against the injustice of her own greed. It struck me: I can usually tell when someone's over 30 by a diction sample of less than 100 words, but she was forming sentences and choosing vocab like a Zoomer. Woulda passed a Turing-style age test, were I the proctor. I thought it was beautifully neurotic; she mentioned later that "all artists, in some way, hate the culture that they come from." I didn't fully agree: Alison Bechdel and Buju Banton are the first strong counterexamples that come to mind, but I certainly thought that was an interesting lens for her to take on a poem ostensibly about the idyllic, natural world. At one point she referred to an orange individual residing in a White Man House. This was surprising, as she said that she does not peruse online, considering it beyond her. I don't use it either, except for articles and coding, and totally empathize with her sensibility, but her diction there and throughout felt like what I call "Standard Internet English," which I am somewhat critical of because it's killing basically every accent. I guess living in New York gets you in that mindset without having to actually go online! I fw her energy though, she seems like a good guy.

I liked what she said about her process, and have been trying to incorporate it into mine. She said she gets it all out on paper, and has a crucial phase of arrangement, once the generation is done. She really hammered in the image of having papers all around you, something like ingredients, and that this process of arrangement (for publication) was where the "cooking", or finesse, came in. I did something similar for an article I had to write on Havana Syndrome later that week: I ripped the text of about 9 or 10  articles on the subject from varying sources, collected them into a Notepad++ file, and printed them, small font, with a lot of leftover space to write. I spent a lot of time reading, noting particular moments to cite explicitly, and writing commentary in the margins whenever I started getting an idea, reading through all 20 pages twice. I then did Ms. Olds' arrangement process, getting everything down into another text file, then combing and arranging until the progression was natural enough. She was totally right: this process was about the same level of efficient, but far more enjoyable, and as such much more productive. I do a fair amount of handwriting in the creative writing classes, but I will try to emphasize it more in the future. 

