OPS -
G. MOON

US REGIONS

Caju - capital: New Orleans                                     <- first part of LEE, parts of ODE 
California - capital: san silicon, largest - LA                 <- parts of LEE, some of BOX
Cascadia - capital: portland, largest - seattle
Delta: capital: vicksburg, largest: atl
Deseret - capital: SLC, largest: vegas                          <- most of TOE, a little of LEE
Florida: capital: tampa, largest: miami                         <- a little of ODE
Long Island: capital: NYC
New England: capital: boston 
Nexus: capital: DC, largest: alexandria                         <- lots of LEE
The North - capital: philadelphia, largest: chicago             <- a little of OIL
Ozark - capital: fayetteville, largest: memphis                 <- some of BOX, some of LEE, some of OIL, most of ODE, a little of TOE
Texas - capital: austin, largest: dallas                        <- a little of LEE, some of BOX
The Upper Peninsula - capital: marquette                        <- some of ODE

Venus                                                           <- lots of OIL

CREATURES THAT EXIST THROUGHOUT
agent, atmospheric ghost light, alien, evil doctor



LEE - a story about manson, granddad, and immor(t)ality

//TONE DEBT - pynchon, minutemen, and vince gilligan
//30. AMBITION: ambitor covets something from opponent.
//17. IMPRUDENCE: someone is fatally unable, causing detriment. often a bad gamble.
//31. CONFLICT WITH GOD: struggle between a mortal and immortal, often at latter’s negligence.
//20. SELF-SACRIFICE FOR IDEAL: for the cause, suffering death, harm, or offering service.
//6. DISASTER: our hero is defeated by an enemy
//35. RECOVERY: the seeker finds the lost.
//DRUGS: LSD, Opiates, Alcohol
//PARTICULAR CREATURES: banshee, nuke-man, doppelganger, exposed brain, evil twin, star jelly, MK-ULTRA, cloned neanderthal, abiogenic petrol

Bureau of Management and Modern Dynamics

This story involves the karmic undoing of a man named Lee Fava, a gangly straight edge greaser 29-year-old under thrall of a cabal of sinister agents, all of whom are related, and horrible. The Parkers gas Lee up, and eventually send him to jail, and he as such begins an intensive, incidentally true cult, worshiping "a series of points".

OIL - a story about aliens, myself, and the iraq war

	//TONE DEBT - vonnegut, miyazaki, and steven universe
	//12. OBTAINING: the claimer must acquire something from the opponent in possession.
	//10. ABDUCTION: the abductor abducts the abducted from the guardian.
	//16. MADNESS: someone goes crazy to the victim’s detriment. <- reverse
	//8. REVOLT: a conspirator rises up against a tyrant.
	//5. PURSUIT: a fugitive evades an enforcer.
	//3. AVENGE: someone gets vengeance against a criminal
	//DRUGS: Weed, DMT
	//PARTICULAR CREATURES: basilisk, cell tower, ghosts, sirens, oil/slime creature, vonnegutian time travel, big, visible bacterium, eel w head at both sides, oafish ring of 	 fire, solar sail powered living boats, abura akago, VNP robot colonizers under thrall of piggish godking Richard Chains.

Basically, Mona Parker is an e-girl who has gotten used to a level of comfort. Most of her clients do not know that she is transgender. She's driving to Chicago for SRS, and has her car break down in rural Missouri. The cozy local starts getting creepy, and at this point what follows is sort of implied to not be reality. A toroidal spaceship comes down, and the man scurries away. Mona is consumed by a Von Neumann probe, and begins making something akin to grey goo,

gwar-ee-too-lum!
a welsh greeting given to one in mourning, which effectively communicates, “i pray that one day your anguish will quintuple, at the cold, dead hands of someone better.”

our towns were all called Llanfairpwllgwyngyll­gogery­chwyrn­drobwll­llan­tysilio­gogo­goch, but that sentiment got four syllables.

my great-great-grandpappy devaughn jones was in mourning when he left the southwestern corner of Fancy Accent Island in the 1890s. his parents and sisters were involved in a dubious house fire, dubious because precisely zero bodies were found in the rubble, not a trace, not a tooth. he was in a local patch of woods, as he often was, trying to catch a glimpse of an antelope-like creature his schoolmates had convinced him was real over a year before. it supposedly had three massive horns that wove into a triple helix, and could induce a vivid hallucinationatory vision which would instill in the recipient a true feeling of purpose. every rustle, scratch, or trembling was evidence it was near, and anyway he didn’t have much better to do. this “sense of purpose” BS appealed to him, as a gawky Welsh teen with nowhere to go and no one to be. he told his sister, philomena, who was supposed to be watching him that he would be “throwing rocks in the quarry.” she believed this, because she thought he was stupid. on returning to an empty, ashen home, devaughn f

That man bore a Pennsylvanian son, a truly boring man, one Tholomew



BOX - a story about avarice, crypto, and damien

//TONE DEBT - delillo, coens, groening, arrested development
	//11. ENIGMA: the hero must solve the problem while facing the pressure
	//6. DISASTER: our hero is defeated by an enemy
	//7. CRUELTY/MISFORTUNE: someone gets dealt dirty.
	//9. BOLD ENTERPRISE: A bold leader faces an opponent to acquire the desirable object.
	//17. IMPRUDENCE: someone is fatally unable, causing detriment. often a bad gamble.
	//33. ERRONEOUS JUDGEMENT: false suspicion allows mistake to happen.
	//DRUGS: adderall, LSD, MDMA, Ketamine
	//PARTICULAR CREATURES: AGI, living suit of armor, airborne mycelium supercomputer, dyson sphere about some antimatter, subterranean civilization, megafauna, docilizing SSRIs


Take 5, D.

I knew from knowing, that D paid the thirty-five dollar rent every month on his cube, not because he was broke, living there out of necessity, like a lot of the sad sacks who habitually were at CubeLand Zero, the supposedly historic, experimental, and alternative living facility his dopey coworker Damon had converted the storage units a mile down the road from his house into. He was there because his fiancee, Tina, was pissed at him, habitually, and for good reason. She didn’t like that he sold weed because he was on probation, and didn’t really need the extra money. Tina’s sister had fallen for a pill dealer (just Xans, but he got a year) when Tina was maybe fourteen, and she’d since always tried to avoid finding herself in that situation, talking through cell glass to her life partner, pushing off bills and social deadlines, spiraling. Judging by his personality, I’d bet his mother pinched his cheeks often, affectionately calling him "Richie," giving him presents at other children's birthday parties, and that his father was mostly absent.
D would drive up to his cube and “wait it out” when Tina got really pissed at him about once a week when she started crying and throwing shit and screaming that she didn't want to marry him. D didn't understand his wife's problem. He thought that was nice, that he was already calling her "wife." She had a rough childhood, and could happily live off potatoes, oil, and seasonings for as long as the circumstances dictated, but D craved pleasure grander in scope. He shopped at Fresh Market, buying olives and organic take-out trays, bergamot, rye, and that sort of thing. He had a very good gaming desktop that he had invested quite a bit of time, money, and energy into, and used the Stocks app daily, to his credit score's chagrin.
D and Mike knew each other from work. They were both managers at Samwiches, Mike in the day, D in the night. They both made around 30K a year after taxes, and they had known each other since high school. Mike was three years older than D, and an all-around better guy, being the only one of the two to have actually graduated, successfully maintained a relationship longer than a year, or made friends in jail. He was chilling with D because he had nothing better to do.
Mike maintained his cube, like D, for ancillary purposes, as a safe, walkable place to store, buy, and sell drugs. Mike had a girlfriend, Imani, who didn't have any problem with his selling as far as I know, but Mike regardless took advantage of the lack of cops and bountiful customers at CubeLand Zero. He wasn’t really the type of guy to explicitly forbid her from visiting his cube, but I don’t see why she ever would.  CubeLand Zero's residents were famously anonymous, encrypted by a shitty sort of compression-ish Caesar-cypher-type algorithm that was supposed to be the blockchain. Mike had just sold D the three ounces, I think. He probably paid five hundred bucks. I bet Mike was feeling generous because the week previous, D had covered two of his shifts. Mike was always more focused on bulky, big-picture stuff. He'd never actually gotten caught for dealing. The only time he went to jail, for five months when he was about 20 for regular, beating-a-guy-up-style assault, he actually got exonerated officially, like, by witness testimony, once the assaultee came out of his coma, and they released him early. The governor apologized on TV, and Mike got a tidy settlement out of the whole thing: money that he had since spent all of, sure, but money well spent. He was doing fine now, at any rate. Since he'd become manager he'd balanced his own budget, Bill Clinton style, and paid off the $800 in credit card debt that he'd maintained since he'd lost the last of what he called his "cushion." Mike was supposed to graduate the following semester, Business, from PSU, and he told people he intended to move out of the South, and get a "real job" with Samwiches Corporate, probably in Chicago or DC, because he already had people there.
Since most of the founders had left, an "anything goes" mentality pervaded in CubeLand Zero. The clientele was almost exclusively men, cis-hetero-normative men, at that. From what Mike told me, in a big winding monologue that was pretty self-reflective for a guy, the vibes in there were akin to a locker room in an '80s movie. Nude, wandering men were constant presences, and door-to-door dealers would knock, quietly and politely, every couple of minutes or so, distributing primarily poorly-labeled psychoactive substances, but also, on occasion, things like food or water or weapons. It was pretty obviously Damon's first draft. There wasn't a shiny jobs guarantee like he'd set up in the Alamo branch, no planned connection to existing public transit infrastructure like at San Silicon. It was a stack of concrete, with warmly wallpapered and carpeted hallways. At this point, 150 or so transient homeless types from the surrounding area had taken up semi-permanent residence in the cubes, and about the same amount of local, homeful men had followed their lead, securing themselves authentic-seeming, physically-distant holiday bachelor pads at a reasonable price. Then came the college kids, mostly frugal by necessity, who kept to themselves, and spent the majority of their days out in libraries and coffee shops, wherever Wifi was available, hardly making an impression on the Cubemunity. You could do 5G, on the phone, in the cubes, but with moderate to severe lag. Thus, for entertainment, four cubes had been, since the beginning, designated as social meeting places, with a bunch of stuff you've gotta have every now and then that you couldn't get in the standard-issue cubes, like windows, regular-style outlets, a water fountain, a microwave, and a standard induction cooktop, as well as vending machines serving amenities like decks of cards, packs of ramen, and boxes of Lucky Stripes. D and Mike lived on the third story, second to the top, which had itself a pretty rowdy party room. The dull feedback from D's cube's northwest was so incessant that I had to code a special catch for it, in the virus I was collecting his data with.
Anyway, D and Tina, the night before, which was December 7, 2024, had one of their worst arguments in recent memory. D had his phone in his front pocket like he often does for some reason, and the screaming evidently exceeded 110 dB, which I believe is a new record. D wasn't sure when he'd be allowed back to the one-bedroom they rented from Inquiry Management And Real Estate LLC, so he brought with him his work uniform, bong, and Bluetooth speakers (the projector volume was never loud enough). At times like this he lamented putting so much time and energy into a non-portable gaming solution, but, he optimistically hoped she'd accept the apology he'd texted her on the drive over within the hour, and decided not to even worry about it. He could easily spend an hour hanging out with Mike, whose car he noticed parked out in the gravel lot. Most of the people in the cubes didn’t drive, but that majority steadily dwindled, getting to the point now that good parking was somewhat hard to come by. D walked to the building, itself, a sort of cube, for about 6 minutes before he began up the stairs, rollicking and rolling audible all the while. At one moment, he held his phone up to check a text, and I saw the full building through his rear camera. A couple common room windows had large cracks through them, which wasn't too peculiar, but I noticed the cracks faintly continued along the concrete, some going fully beyond the northwestern edge.  
D found Mike in his room. He was writing in a small, graph-paper journal. “Hey f*****, you writing a love letter?” asked D, in response to which Mike chastised D’s course, homophobic language, and the attitudes that it no doubt represented, dodging the question. It was a love letter. He wouldn’t have called it that, though. He’d just finished handwriting about three pages that he planned to snail-mail to Imani, asking and answering banterish, surface-level icebreaker questions. The two had been doing this for years, ancillary to their committed, monogamous, in-person relationship, acting as pen pals. Imani liked thinking of Mike, independent of everything else, as a list of carefully chosen words that could make her feel a certain way, and Mike, over time, ceded that he liked it too.
D's phone was strapped into the provided phone-dock-to-projector-hookup, and his camera was pointed towards himself and Mike, sitting in plastic lawn chairs in D's cube. They were watching a compilation of bugs getting squashed, with the rank, spiderwebbed concrete walls providing a hazy grey undertone to the somewhat-delayed footage, which was furthered by the dim, also-provided LED vibe lights set to deep blue. There were three other lawn chairs in a stack over in a corner, and, in the entire room, two other non-food-trash items, the first of which was a mildewy, gnawed-down acoustic guitar onto which D mostly played alt and punk covers, although almost never, anymore. The second item, or rather, group of items, was a large, rather filthy bong and about three ounces split into two bags, one labeled "Zkittlez" and one labeled "Ice Cream Cake."All of it was covered in little smears of gunk, wedged inexorably from every crevice. Cubes had Murphy-style beds, and as long as I’d been watching him D’s never came down. He’d always just conk out in a lawn chair, keeping the YouTube going all night. On the wall, a roach nest was tossed from a fifth-story window, and the slo-mo, up-close splatter shot got replayed thrice.
D said, "Broooo... That one was nasty. Did you see the green shit?"
Mike said, "Ughck! Don't remind me."
It was the first moment of conversation in an hour, a blip in the .wav file that merged with my jailbroken Google Drive as soon as it was noted as "notEmpty."  
The two, roused, began smoking again. In CubeLand Zero, smoking indoors was a way of life. Hundreds of pounds of cigarettes, weed, and beyond had been at this point pulverized into mere molecules, reduced to a stench that stained every wall, and permeated every pore.
D, having tamped down the bowl, asked Mike, "You know what they used to call me?"
Mike seemed genuinely perturbed for a moment and then some, then said "I don't know... Nah, I'm just playing! They used to call you Bong Hit Junior!"
D hollered "That's god-damned right!" and he scarfed down half the bowl in one go, coughing so hard he cried.
Mike patted his back, consoling him. "It's hard, buddy. Hey, I couldn't do that."
While D had likely invited Mike over for an explicitly selfish reason, to re-up, I presume he had an ancillary motive. Mike had at one point, shortly after his exoneration, released two experimental hip-hop mixtapes that he had mixed himself. They were panned by critics who were right, stating that Mike had one flow and one beat that he couldn't veer from, and that he resorted to slant rhymes too often to even, really, be considered a "rapper." Nevertheless, once, during this brief creative burst, D convinced Mike to "jam" with him. He told this story constantly, to anyone who would listen. His self-described meandering, breezy technique supposedly went perfectly with Mike's jagged, ersatz rhymes. He was constantly insisting that the two of them could make great music, but Mike had at this point grown embarrassed by the whole thing, deleted all his stuff off Spotify, and implemented the habit of denying his past to D and anyone else who might confront him with it.
There is a reason that I presume this ancillary motive. I'm not working with Rorschach blobs here. They spent thirty more minutes smoking like demons, then, when the dust settled, and the last of the wheezing stopped, I heard a faint tapping. Arrhythmic, brooding, probably D. I heard another beat, faster, but even less precise, more grating. D began plucking, not even bothering with the frets, just playing “G-E-G-E-G-G-G-(Rest)” over and over.
Mike affected an obnoxious, sort of whiny, high-pitched affect. That was how he supposedly used to rap. He was repeating “Yeeeeaahhh,” making it last a full measure each time. They went on for 32 measures, and Mike, on 33, began instead saying, “Big Mike is on the mic now.” D started playing the intro to “Santeria.” This went on 17 measures. The recordings I get have the ambient noise, from the common room, tuned out. It was at this point, measure 17, cutting Mike off halfway, that an abnormal noise came suddenly from that direction, a deafening crash, followed by a piercing shriek. It was a man’s voice, a dying man, with a newly wet throat and circumstantially poor enunciation. D’s phone was in his front pocket. The rear camera was facing outward. He and Mike ran toward the common room, hiding just out of sight so they could observe without potentially getting in the middle of something. They saw the shrieker, pinned between the floor and some ceiling that seemed to have caved in, a gaunt old man dressed in rags. He was the only person still in the common room.  Judging by the storm of stomps that could be heard in the stairwell, the fourth and third story’s common rooms had been packed, easily two hundred people, each. Rustling continued to get picked up, heavier, structural rustling. The concrete walls were releasing dust and other such particles into the air, loudly menacing, spawning coughing fits in every direction. Mike started running toward the stairs, the only real exit. Damon had not set up fire escapes, as he’d always kept the place, technically, designated as an industrial warehouse. He said it helped keep rents low, and cops out. D ran after Mike, and once he reached the stairs heard a great kaboom to his north. Dust hung heavier in the air, tinting it grey. There were more screams now, if I had to guess, strung-out, immobilized junkies who hadn’t been able to jet when the push came to shove. Mike had left D in the dust, now likely on the first story, racing toward the revolving doors. D took the stairs two at a time, narrowly avoiding a big human-sized shard that fell out of the ceiling right as he got out of the stairwell. The first story was mayhem, a mass of bodies burgeoning, energetic, but with no real momentum. D, paunchy, tried to use his girth to his advantage, pushing through the rabble, but at his core, he was one man. Mike was probably caught in this big huddle too, probably closer to the middle. That hallway there was only like 15 feet wide, maybe 250 feet to the door, but from what I could see it was packed full of people, with no traffic flowing. I bet it smelled like human shit, DMT, and Fritos.
The footage was like that for about eight minutes. The mass of skin and carcinogenic building fragments ebbed and flowed as one being, and it took all the gusto D had not to fall, and be stomped to death. From witness testimony, I’ve gathered that only about thirty people maximum got out every minute, as the revolving door was usually being pressed with equal force on both sides. Even when the firefighters showed up, things didn’t improve in any visible way, there were just more bodies in the pile.  D got out of the building two minutes before it officially collapsed, when the southern half had its full rupture, and he went into fight or flight mode, doing a jump-shove maneuver, kind of fish-hooking whoever was in his way until they went down. He didn’t see Mike anywhere along the way, and presumed that he’d made it out before him. D was filming the building, intentionally, when the foundation fully disintegrated, and the zeroth floor (which had a back exit that any reasonable person probably would have chosen over the revolving doors) was crushed under millions of tons of concrete. A lot of people were down there, I assume. I know about one-third of the people who escaped came out that way before they couldn’t. The Firefighters were pulling people out of the wreckage for days, but I don’t think they found anyone still breathing. They never found Mike. D swears that he got out and that he’s alive, somewhere, eating and thinking and not being seen. I find that hard to believe. He didn’t seem like he had any reason to get up and go, and he seemed like a reasonable enough dude to get pressed to death in the basement.
…
After three years of no word one way or the other, and the incidental death of D, vehicular manslaughter, I knocked on Imani’s door, with a couple of questions prepared. She didn’t recognize me, which I found kind of odd. I told her that I had known Mike and that I was curious about what she knew of his ultimate fate. Imani was lukewarm but somewhat receptive. I inched a little closer, imperceptibly, letting me see into her kitchen. She said that she had no reason not to believe that he had died in the collapse and that she believed that Damon and his suite of bacchanal, naive investors had killed him. Then she started crying. To console her, I offered to send her an mp3 collage of some of the audio files I had ripped from D’s phone my computer made automatically, thousands of hours of static footage filtered into seven and a half hours of pure Mike, plenty of talking, joking, singing, and that sort of thing. She got very angry at this, for some reason, and forced me out of her house, which I had at this point inched enough into to be fully inside of. In the moment of removal, to my left, where I had a clear view of her refrigerator, I noticed a scattered, frenetic collage of little pieces of grid paper, each neatly displaying Mike’s bad handwriting. The one nearest to the top only had one word, not a word, but a number, that I could make out without my glasses on. It was “2027.”


Terrence "Methuselah of the Unincorporated Community right on the southern edge of Crittenden County most locals just call West Memphis despite it being about fifteen minutes by car outside the official city limits" Wu grew up an only child, slightly wealthier than his schoolmates, who mostly lived within a mile of the bridge and broadly thought of themselves, in the context of their own lives, as "city folk", or perhaps “suburban,” if they were shrewd. As an adolescent he felt put upon, isolated, like a misshapen social ogre whose lack of exposure to kids his own age forced the exponentially growing, “quick” negative-feedback wheel keep on-a turning. He spent his nights playing "logic games", doodling analog circuits and soloing Risk and Pandemic, Ticket to Ride, and larger projects that existed only in his mind. His days, out of a lack of other options, were spent in the mile-long radius of woods surrounding his family's home, rapturously soaking in the splendor of youth, yonder, and Vitamin D, staring at mushrooms, and, if the sun was setting, walking up the great big hill and splaying out in the dried-out sandy crevice up on top, bugs squirming out from under his ass and legs, glasses off. Terrence was calm, meditative, strikingly happy in spite of his lack of friends. His knack for sitting with himself unperturbed was one of the few traits from this era he took active steps to preserve. He never wore headphones, or earbuds, or AirPods, spoke rarely, and watched television only when accompanied, even after he got rich.
In high school he fell in with the Weird Kids in a class of sixty or so, which in a town that small was a broad coterie you fell into if you were a Weeb, Gay, Alt, Nerd, Edgelord, Left-Wing, Goth, Autistic, and/or not White. Infighting was common. It was the third largest clique, following the Neon Jocks and Rich Girls, and was composed primarily of White Autistic Weebs, among whom Terrence felt mildly comfortable, but certainly built up no affinity. He graduated quietly, receiving very little applause, making no plans for college or work, and maintaining friendships with no one. In spite of his parent's having offered countless times to buy him a smartphone or car, anxious to make the young boy maintain an ever-present tracking device using one of those spyware apps you read about on NextDoor, or a fossil fuel dependency. He never obliged, as he didn't really see why you'd ever want to talk to someone who wasn't actually there, or usually, someone who was. For sixty-six months, his parents and grandparents politely ignored the future, and enjoyed the boy for who he was. It was a summer that stretched into October five years later, a time Terrence largely spent hammocking. On his twenty-third birthday, Terrence's parents gave him the American Ultimatum. They told him that he was a man, and that he had had enough life experience by that point to make it on his own. They gave him two thousand dollars, vaguely implying that he could ask for more in around half a year, and told him to visit often, but to kindly clear out by the end of the week, as his grandmother wanted to set up his room as her studio. Terrence’s father patted him on the shoulder, fake-smiling, and told him that they were only doing this because they loved him.
Terrence was vexed by the eviction. He was not capable of driving, so his parents gave him a bicycle that was a little rusted, but barely used. Big River Crossing was four hours northeast, was what they said, ride to Tennessee, where you will find a job, a wife, and a city far more tremendous in size and scope than even wide, dimly-lit West Memphis! He spent a few days lethargic, ruminating, nostalgia congesting mind-tubes and brute motor functions like a five gallon drum of lard oil forced down a Standard American Commode via advanced plunger tactics. On packing his bags, which he took pride in slimming down to a backpack with four changes of clothes and some essential consumables, the two thousand dollars, a MacBook Pro his Grandpa had gotten him the Christmas before that he had not set up yet, and a large suitcase he figured out how to latch to the back of the bike containing several hundred pages of graph paper, pens, and all the board game shit.
On the last day, he realized something that made him feel hideous. He had not been to the woods the entire previous week. He dashed out, 5:30 PM harboring a slight darkening in the sky, some splendid colors, nighttime’s careful omens. The little carved out entrance was still there, the rock path, brushy shrubs, all of the trees seemed to be in order. He continued, now mindless, at ease. The sole aberration came five minutes in. He noticed a neon blue flap poking out from behind a charming slender pine in the background, and pushed toward it, noting that the sky was darkening at a quickening rate. The flap was a part of a tent, in which a homeless man was drinking from a can of Vegetarian Vegetable soup that he had decondensed in a pot with some water, and heated in a little flame circle he’d made right next to the door, with the provided kindling. The nomad noticed the rustling that Terrence had caused, with the branches, and said a calm “Hello,” beginning to exit. He didn’t want to be perceived as frightening, or as a nuisance. “I’m sorry.”
Terrence smirked. His Ozark education had taught him about people like this. “Are you homeless?”
The nomad was fazed, clearly put off. He lied, “No, no. I just love camping, I’m out here constantly. Every day I’m with the trees.”
Terrence was now skeptical. “Well then why haven’t I seen you around then, Mister Camper?” He was overconfident, certain in himself as the “alpha” of the situation.
“I didn’t mean these specific woods, nah, I was talking more broadly.” Terrence furrowed his brow. The nomad continued, “I’m a wanderer, really. It’s not so bad, especially out here in the States. They’ve got church orgs out here, passing out food and coffee on Tuesdays. You can get ten or fifteen bucks profit spanging off the highway, no qualms from no one if you pay off Captain Sorrels.  What’s the alternative, and how is it better, really?”
Terrence was confused. He’d never imagined someone who’d resort to homelessness, not out of necessity, but ideology. He considered his own impending homelessness, and decided that the concept angered him, as he noticed the man before him, in his smelly t-shirt, and spotless Yeezys, as a brutish, stupid living contradiction: an oxy moron. “What, are you just gonna mooch off Mom and Pop ‘til someone dies?” He collected himself. “What about the nights where it gets really cold? Do you pull some credit card with another man’s name out your asshole, and get a hotel room, you lazy prick?”
The man sagely shook his head. “When it is cold I wrap myself in several blankets, and wrap the result in my bivy bag. When I am hungry I eat what I am able to gather, like any man. I do not communicate with my parents, or anyone. I am not insane.”    
Terrence, incredulous, continued to pester the man, convinced he was somehow inauthentic. “Life can’t be one big fucking party, man!” He yanked the tent flap, flailing for no reason at a man who hadn’t done anything wrong, and jostled free a couple oblong clear glass pipes, one of which shattered on a nearby rock. There were a couple needles visible now, of which Terrance was at the time unaware of any nefarious ancillary use, quaintly ironic. He maintained his glare, as if he was unaware that he had done something wrong. He thought the nomad would respond well to authority, which he of course didn’t, but like most nomads, he wasn’t a fighter when he didn’t think his life was in danger.
After a seven second staring contest, Terrance turned his back and indignantly stomped out the woods the way he came, something he tried his best to never do, and arrived glum and pessimistic at the house he’d once called home. His Grandpa was the only one in the living room. He beckoned Terrance over, leaned real close, and gave him a small red box, covered in lace, and two white rabbits arranged with 180° rotational symmetry, which he told him to only open if he felt truly, unalterably hopeless, or if the reverse was true, a concept on which his Grandpa was cloudy on the specifics of. Grandpa closed his eyes, sleeping on the couch with COPS on in the background as he usually did. Terrance retired, sleeping in his childhood bed for the last time, catching off-glimpses of his empty room.


X. BOX   

or, “workaholics”, or, “effect of altruism”

0. Instantiation!

Let me spin you a yarn, dear reader, of the sudden appearance of my glorious benefactor!

I, 5’6, was working at a chain sandwich shop, “Samwiches”, in some medium-sized town, let’s call it “Whitehaven”, square in the asshole of Ozarkia. The decor bled neon, attitude-laden pleasantries and twisted aphorisms shooting through the reader like subatomic particles, never colliding with anything capable of sensory processing, nay, even a simple “vibe check”. Our quote unquote leader, the titular man who had never met anyone who I had met, was one Horatio Sam, who seemed large but not jolly, shrewd. His hollow eyes blared at all times, via larger-than-life portrait above the make-line. He was the first white guy to think of putting avocado on a sandwich, and with the millions he generated he spent his latter days hunting exotic game in foreign countries, having sold the company to Dining Style Inc. His gaze lit no spark of ambition within me, dear reader. I was a vicious stoner, diametrically opposed to the idea of doing anything, sans “sparking up” or playing Let’s Go! Pets 3. Oh mercy, I was a lost cause! I made 300 dollars a week, living free and comfortable at my mother’s house, spending it all on joysticks and noisemakers. After I dropped out sophomore year, leaving behind a sizable Women in Journalism scholarship, I languished in stasis 18 coronaviral months, setting my pen in the chest-of-drawers by my bedside, next to all my other, indefinitely suspended, dreams. What follows, is the series of events since then that have spurred me to relift it, to once again document.

1. A Surface-Level Anecdote, So The Reader Might Glean A Mote Of Insight Into The Character Of One Damon Noid.

I was engaged in conversation with my coworker, Aidan. Aidan, like most of my coworkers, belongs to the Beta Omicron Chi fraternity, at PSU a little down the road. Most of these types blend together for me, but Aidan stuck out enough that I remembered his name. Mostly, he was the only one even close to my height, meaning I managed to see more than his chin, which, like the rest of them, was pointy, and irregularly bearded. Anyway, Aidan began to give me the breakdown re. the previous day, a day in which he found himself again encased within this self-same establishment.

He was working with Damon Noid, a weirdo with Minnesota plates and a microchip on his shoulder, 5’5. Despite the lax nature of the “Sandwich Boys” uniform, he was breaking the dress code in several ways, pajama pants littered with holes, Deadpool shirt, he smelled bad. The managers, newly declawed what with that aforementioned Covid virus, couldn’t really say shit. Aidan asked him what his deal was. “I’m kind of a piece of shit, man”, Damon said with alacrity that felt forced, unnatural. He was older than most of the college-kid coworkers, at least 25 or 26, and already balding. “I’m here ‘cause of an ex-wife restraining order.” It was a four person shift, with one other indistinguishable frat guy named Lodin and this annoying nerd Francis Bauer, maybe 6’1, heavyset, smelly, and greasy. I had long ago convinced the manager, D., not to schedule me with him when he could avoid it ‘cause he followed this girl I know home once, but on the rare occasions we did work together he was resolutely disinterested in anything I had to say or do. That was actually pretty nice, I could just sit on my phone 80% of the time, pampering my virtual anteater. Anyway, Lodin and Aidan were both out on delivery, and Aidan got back first. He clocked in to a silent shop, an egregious abnormality, and tiptoed into the lobby. He saw, for a few brief moments, Francis and Damon, still, standing, facing each other. Francis’ shirt, as per usual, failed to cover the full extent of his drooping stomach fat, and the spillover was being held with both hands by Damon. They were maintaining electric eye contact, and seemed to be enjoying themselves stoically, up until they noticed Aidan and scrambled, yelling and rustling shit up in service of a doomed impulse to distract, to come up with a different thing to talk about.

2. I  Witness A Crime

Aidan, having finished the story, asked, “Ain’t that some shit?” It really wasn’t, I’ve seen worse shit on the local news, but it was fine.

I said, “Yeah, gas anecdote.”

Damon was back at work tonight, but instead of Francis we had Geraldo, who was unspeakably attractive, and sold weed, psychs, and pills. He was in a committed relationship, still, with his girlfriend from high school, which ensured that we rarely talked. He managed that night, with a lovely “hands off” approach. We were busy, but during a lull I introduced myself to Damon, careful not to reveal that I knew his name. He awkwardly informed me that he was bisexual and a furry, and scrunched his face up like a rat, rubbing his temples.

He walked away from me and toward Geraldo, grimace upside-downifying into a radiant smile. “Evening, officer, wondered if I might acquire myself five of those little pieces of paper we discussed the other day.” Geraldo grinned goofy, and led Damon to the back. They came out with three little pieces of paper, Damon having eaten two. He made that much clear to me once he got back. With malaise and dread at all his various tips, he asked, “you do acid?”

In fact, I did “do” acid, not quite habitually, but certainly enough that I knew not to drop after 6, 8 at the latest. Besides, the garish shop bore a cloud of hostile energy visible even to the unfettered eye. I considered asking if I could get a tab, just, like, for later, but I was broke.

3. I Commit a Crime

At that point, a karenish woman ushered in a steady trickle of like-minds, via the drive-thru. Geraldo took his time with pride, contentedly performing over the intercom, register, and makeline, not quite simultaneously. He had come back off break ten minutes previous, smelling of bad eggs and fumes. Damon, ticking like a bomb, grabbed a cup of ice water, and took off his apron. I could tell that he planned on smoking marijuana, because he told Aidan, “I’m going to go smoke some marijuana on the roof.” He asked if anyone cared to join. Geraldo, after a moment of consideration, did not, and Aidan ignored the question entirely. I glanced around, and thought critically for a moment. I had a girly pepper spray keychain on my person, as well as several sharp objects and a whistle in my purse. Further, this Damon dude was empty behind the eyes, and if he tried to grab me up on the roof I could just holler. I accompanied him up the ladder, politely toting the comically-oversized-for-stealth-purposes bong. We faced four weathered folding chairs beat in by the elements, all facing a central table. The view up there was unremarkable: the sunset likely would have been beautiful if an orange cloudy haze didn’t shield all but the closest strip-mall from view. He packed a generous bowl of maybe 0.6 grams, with a pinch of rosin plucked with tweezers from a little dab-case. He gave me greens, so I didn’t start things by expressing sexual disinterest.

I asked, “What brought you to Arkansas?” His parents, as it turns out, moved here a couple years back. His ex-wife got all his friends in the divorce, and the process for transferring to a different state’s Samwiches was simple, informal. We employees know a like-mind on sight.

He asked me, “Do you go to school?” This was a likely attempt to suss out whether I was ‘legal’, which I was, albeit uneager to share this information.

I said, “Yeah, but I’m on break right now,” keeping it vague and moving on. “What do you do in your spare time?”

He smirked like he was formulating a half truth. “I spend a lot of time on reddit,” he said confidently, “I’m basically a bastard spawn of the internet, would be the best way to put it.” This was what piqued my interest. Earlier that year a bunch of odious incels, forumheads, and creepers pulled a scam with the stock-trading app, jacking up the price of this one radio parts company a thousand fold. The crypto nerds kept the wave going, and basically issued millions on millions to those “bastard spawn” who spent enough time online to have heard about it early. It was probably the first occurrence in world history of a massive pattern of wealth redistribution towards the most annoying portion of the population, without regard for class or vocation. This man, indeed, was profoundly annoying. We finished the bowl, decided to leave the bong there, and headed back into the store, putting on aprons, I tied my hair back. The line at the drive through had not shrunken at any point, and was now about 5 cars long. We slung lackadaisically, insulting customers to their faces.

An in-shop came in, a three-or-four instance-per-shift rarity in the viral days. It was Hal, a big fucking guy with bones for teeth, a rootin’-tootin’ white man who was always trying to strike up a god-damned conversation, but gave every employee he could find a 20-bill in December. Nobody liked him, but you had to paint a smile on, cause he was friends with the father of the middling 45-year-old stoner who, on paper, owned the establishment. Damon began to take his order. He always wanted the double beef sub with extra mayo, pickles and onions, hold the cheese. He paid with a 20 and told Damon to keep the change, adding “I’ll bet that made your night, didn’t it?”

Damon, scowling, said “No way man. My money makes money that makes more than that in a day. I’m just here to keep myself company.”

Hal was upset. His pet peeve was a lack of subservience in others, and the hairs on his arm were standing on end on little goose pimples. He wasn’t gonna yell, again, as last time he tried something like that his daughter found a video of it on SlipSlop, a short-form content generation algorithm popular with the Covid kids. He merely stopped talking, made a mental note not to pay the dirty white guy who smelled like weed, and scooted out promptly. We were impressed. He said he lied, to get Hal out of the store, but once 9 rolled around and Damon and I clocked out, he led me again up to the roof, promising more weed and “the whole story.”

5. The Transcript Of The Interview I Conducted With Damon On The Night Of 2021.03.25 [CONDENSED FOR BREVITY]

NARRATRIX: Do you mind if I record you? I’m something of an aspiring author.

DAMON: Go for it, just don’t tell any Samwichers. I just don’t want to get treated any differently, you know. Always getting asked for money and stuff. I’ve seen it all before.

NARRATRIX: *nodding, compassionate* I truly understand.

DAMON: Thank you, you’re sweet.

10. Damon Allows Me To Visit His Storage Facility, I Befriend Four Members Of The Local Homeless Population, And I Am Offered A Job

11. I Decide To Mull Over Damon’s Offer, And Call Up My One Friend Who’s Still In College

12. Steven And I’s First Day On The Job

13. Damon And I Do Some More Drugs, And I Am Promoted

14. I Deal With A Meth Guy

15. Damon And I Court Some Investors Who Came To Visit From The Internet





16.

20.


alan and the cia would like to utilize the massive cubic building housing over 29,997 formerly homeless people on the ocean of the san silicon bay as a data cultivation firm for a neural network. they use vr helmets that are “freaky, don’t feel like screens” and navigate social situations. they do, creating a functional, constantly learning, “artificially emotional and reasonable” program. this ai is very popular and utilized in recreational programs damon and the likable band of freeloaders (the narrator key among them, the “highest paid sex worker in history” as sort of money laundering through an app) fail to properly maintain the building over time, consistently lacking in important utilities, functional transit, and options to be outside. nevertheless, it touts as a sustainable lifestyle, with “work” only 4 days a week and provided housing food and 60$ “entertainment” budget, as well as furnishings utilities communist grocery store cantina “public transit” and online school. things skip ahead a year when the narrator goes to jail. damon and alan are lsd and dmt-ridden wrecks. most essential managerial functions are performed by cia creeps, some functions performed by formerly homeless as labor-for-housing such as cooking, cleaning, etc. these jobs are highly desirable. damon lives in the cube in an 8 bedroom suite on the top middle.


TOE - a story about the unreal, dow, and eschaton

//TONE DEBT - thompson, looney tunes, death grips, david lynch, alan resnick
	//16. MADNESS: someone goes crazy to the victim’s detriment.
	//8. REVOLT: a conspirator rises up against a tyrant.
	//19. SLAYING OF UNRECOGNIZED KIN
	//31. CONFLICT WITH GOD: struggle between a mortal and immortal, often at latter’s negligence.
	//20. SELF-SACRIFICE FOR IDEAL: for the cause, suffering death, harm, or offering service.
	//34. REMORSE: culprit regrets sin.
	//DRUGS: inhalants (plastic), vapes, dmt, meth
	//PARTICULAR CREATURES: angel, atmospheric ghost light, big worm, bottomless pit, cthulhu, dragon, ourobouros, doppelgangers, golem, puppet, tulpa, grim reaper, time travel, GUF

V. TOE
or, “bottomless pit”, or, “wo, eschaton”, or, “avarice”.

Nothing, besides remains.

I will conclude by wrapping up that last loose end, The Oaf with the infinite gas. he took it to the chest. Spent the next couple of years being professionally depressed, got pregnant too young, and, for some fucking reason, at that point he decided to become a big-rig driver. There are two reasons that this idea burst beyond the pale of oafishness, into the realm of duncery.

The first, of course, was his rapidly being-born child, who they planned to name Kim regardless of gender. The oaf and his oafwife cared deeply about gender equity: in a former life, the latter had been a bisexual warrior, deeply involved in causes furthering discourse on gender and sexuality. They planned on dressing the baby in an ugly puke-green for the first 6 years of its life, and taking care to always use the pronoun “it”. Driving a long haul, of course, would remove the oaf from this Greco-modern parenting arrangement for half the month, every month. The oafwife hadn’t really considered this, but she quickly became brutally depressed when left alone, usually falling into a drug-addled stupor within a few hours. She could have been a wonderful, caring mother, if conditions had been optimal. This arrangement, regrettably, was suboptimal, because of that and this:

The second. That poisonously racist man Takyon D’Ursula who Oaf once idolized was very close to finishing his faulty self-driving automobile tech now, in 2035, and planned to implement it immediately in all big-rigs in his oeuvre. Given all the costs this would cut, he had already made room on his trophy shelf in his bacchanalia chamber for whatever the shareholders decided to reward him with. As such, he couldn’t be stopped by anything short of a bullet. In sum, The Oaf decided to support his family as a belly dancer on the Costa Concordia, willfully ignoring the feverish bleats of the wetsuit-clad saxophone player.

This job appealed to a couple of the oaf’s lifelong dreams. He had always wanted to own property, and this wasn’t quite the same, as of course Takyon had made detached single-family homes, and general property ownership, utterly inaccessible. It was pretty close, though, and property that carried with it a societal function. He could be a cargo mover, and in a year and a half he could keep all of the profits. This was tangible. His mother had worked for the internet and his father had worked for the government, two clandestine, psychedelic organizations that drew power from blood and suffering. He wanted a job in which he could happily send his child off to follow in his footsteps. Really, the best of intentions.




—-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

“You step to THE FUCKING WAY and get your fucking shits removed, OK bronco? Repulsive.”

He proudly exited the match to the victory ditty. THE WAY was his name in the game and, coincidentally, in real life. Dr. Way sat, now quiet, in the downstairs master bedroom’s tv area, in which he was alone. He’d never get that mad when his sons were home, but at present they were out at the local trampoline park with the babysitter. This was his favorite part of the week. His wife was doing yoga with a horde of yoga-doers, and the pit bull was secure in his kennel. He could game at other points in the week, but this was when he could yell, which was to him the entire point. His little military simulator never failed to arouse this level of emotionality, perhaps because he hadn’t been in the military himself. He was what you might call an “asset”, were you an ass.

He taught Schizophrenology at a small college, and had the role of funneling bright youths with useless degrees and nowhere to go into the CIA. Usually, he’d hook them with the promise of life in a large city, like Washington, DC or New York, where they would be free to be bisexual or whatever, it doesn’t matter. Then they’d start by gathering data, recruiting people, nothing immediately hostile. It was better if they had something to prove, better still something to lose. The real shit was left to those who excelled in this rung, which Dr. Way never had. He wasn’t mired in quite enough tragedy to be easily taken advantage of, you see, and so the CIA kept him relegated to his starting position, collecting a meager three thousand a month on the side for dealing with the devil. He never would have met anyone I was related to. Anyway, the guy he was yelling at happened to be our very own Oaf, who played Gunpowder Commando: Ultimate Operation with fanatical gusto and devotion, which almost made up for paltry skill. As he listened to this needly voice lay into him, the Oaf broke into a smile. Ordinarily, he was not above crying at his game, but at this moment he was so content with his life trajectory that there was no possible insecurity for Dr. Way to pick at. He exited the arena, cutting Dr. Way off mid-sentence, and closed the game.

“Are you excited for tomorrow?”, the oaf asked his oafwife, who had been sitting next to him the entire time.


Eventually all of that esoteric bullshit came to an end. The massive force swept it all away like an ill-placed sandcastle, which was tragic but natural. Those unable to stop mourning found themselves caught in that self-same wave, staring vacantly onto what once was as their bodies became himalayan pink salt lamps to some cruel zoomerian god. The only remaining humans were those who managed abnormally high levels of ignorance and luck, which brings up Buster.

In late 2024, Buster called a phone number that he saw on the back of an 18-wheeler while driving to his Xanax plug’s house, a number touting a too-good-to-be-true starting salary and vacation time that he would kill for. If technology had continued to progress unfettered, this truck driving position would have been automated by 2027 at the absolute latest, and he would have been stuck in debt, paying off a truck taken from him by a machine learning algorithm. In this likely event, Buster would have been stuck living off of 55% of his current paycheck, moved back in with his parents, and languished for a couple of years before overdosing on whatever prescription drug made that possible for him first, or some home-grown methamphetamine solution if nothing came in due time. Luckily for him, society collapsed, and society collapsed at a highly opportune time. He was just past Minnesota on I-90, blistering along at his usual 90, when his “real ass hip hop” playlist came to an abrupt stop right as the crescendo of Eminem’s “Not Afraid” was about to hit. He began to open Apple Music, throwing caution to the wind, when he swerved violently to avoid hitting a Tesla in front of him, which had seemingly stopped dead in its tracks simultaneously to Eminem. He began to suspect that both of these events were caused by the same thing, a level of abstract reasoning unusual for him, but he was under fire.

At this point, he had gotten back on the highway, his turn signal already on for the Sioux Falls exit two miles down the road. A minute later, he arrived at the Flying J, planning to house an entire vape cartridge, as was his typical routine when faced with any situation more stressful than a medium-stakes game of checkers. He walked in, glanced at the food, and got to the counter, and found no cashier. In fact, there were no visible employees anywhere. He glanced around at the rest of the customer population noting their frenetic energy and lack of payment, and elected to go with the flow, stealing as many vapes as he could carry and bumbling back to his truck. His concern was exacerbated, and he couldn’t google it because at this point his phone had stopped working entirely. Reluctantly, he again exited his truck to ask the frenzied populace what was going on.

“Why is everyone acting so crazy right now?”, he asked no one in particular within a crowd that had amassed near a gas pump that was spewing uncontrollably.

“To begin with, both wifi and cellular data have eliminated themselves in an Icarusian satellite cascade”, said Ian, the one guy in the crowd who was wearing glasses. “This did away with a lot of forms of social control, thus, the revelry. Further exacerbating the issue, this lack of communication means that, for at least as long if not longer than it takes for a human being to starve to death, supply chains are down for the count. Thus, the pillaging”. He gestured toward another crowd that was large enough to be seen across the street at the Burger King, seemingly having finished ransacking the place and beginning to set the building on fire. Buster only followed about 30% of that gay little speech, but that was enough for him to get the broader picture.

“What are you gonna do then”, asked Buster, to which Ian replied, “I’ve got some canned food at a location I won’t disclose, and a gun, the location of which I will disclose”, he said, as he showed him the bit of pistol sticking out of my waistband. “Mostly I just want to see how shit’s gonna hit the fan”. Buster considered his position, and found that he, too, was sitting pretty. He already had a mostly full tank, which could take him anywhere within a 2000 mile radius, pretty much anywhere in America or Canada. The back was full of containers of canola oil, which, to him, seemed ample calories for waiting out this little sideshow. He had that box of easily over 50, maybe over 100 shitty little vape cartridges, which would realistically last him about 2 weeks. He considered his obligations. His mother and father meant very little to him. By the time he had moved out at 23 there seemed to be a mutual feeling that they should go their separate ways. He respected them, sure, but he didn’t really feel any need to know that they were alright. His friends were probably fine, they all either had jobs or sold drugs and could probably weather this. He was alone! Joy! He went back into the store and scooped up the last hundred vape cartridges, flung them onto the floor of the cab, and drove, neither toward or away from something. After a couple of hours he began to get hungry, and grabbed a bottle of canola oil from the back. Big sturdy bottle, at least a gallon. It wasn’t particularly pleasant, but Buster didn’t really mind where his calories came from. There was a lot to be excited for!

2 MONTHS LATER

Buster was in pain. The oil gave him energy and nothing else, and his body was beginning to cry out. He had begun seeing things which he suspected were not actually there about a week in, and he lost that reservation about a month in. He spent most of his days driving, mostly out of a lack of other things to do. The highways were barren. He probably passed one person a day, if you believe his perception. The truck was battered. He had gotten in two accidents since the end. One was fine, the other driver died on impact. Perks of a big truck! The other guy was not so lucky, stuck alive in his car. When Buster found him, he began to wish that he had a gun on his person, to put this poor man out of his misery. He shrugged, though, not having one, and fucked off. While he was walking back to his truck along the highway, he found a large, inviting box, seemingly about big enough to fit a baby and a half. He decided to open it when he passed it again on his way back, finding the box to contain a moldy, decrepit ventriloquist dummy. While he usually was very hardline against shit like that, he was not in a right state of mind, and against his better judgment put the dummy over his right hand.

“Hey, it’s me Wacko!”, said Wacko. Buster homer-shrieked and flung the dummy as far as he could, then immediately doubled over in the worst pain of his life. The only respite, he seemed to suddenly know, was to inch closer to Wacko, which he did at a frenzied and enthusiastic lockstep, clearly in distress.

Horace Rampart, a rootin-tootin, big-city, Zapata-offilliated, slicked-back oilman and father of four looked like Satan in a seersucker suit one Saturday, about 6 PM in the spring, standing sordidly as he chewed a sandy strip of straw he'd snatched off the cement to shit, smiling. He was nursing a Coca-Cola, too, standing outside the establishment he’d bought it.

“What’s a big shot like you got goin’ on in Odessa?” asked a kind, good-hearted elderly woman, loitering contemporaneously.

“We-ell,” he began, “the money’s gotta come from somewhere. One of my wells ain’t too far from here, and it’d be nice to get y’all using what The Good Lord gave ‘ya. Say, young lady, you know what ‘consolidate’ means?

“I reckon I don’t!”

“It means you’ve got a bunch of little things, running around, not too strong individually, incapable of unifying, but trying to act as one. At whatever it is they do, they do a bad job! You consolidate them, organize them, and assert control, and that more put-together mass, that cohesive whole, is gonna be capable of far more than it ever was before!”

She blinked. “Boy howdy! That makes sense to me.”

Horace went on, “Now, hear me. The fundamental law of the universe is a little thing called symmetrissicity. Basically every action” - he extends one arm west - “has itself an opposite reaction.” - and the other east. “You follow?”

“Oh, yes.” The woman was aware.

"Now lady, when I say 'the universe,' I know that you know that I mean the Divine, with a capital D. Something beyond us. The universe has whims, a personality. She values balance, not order. That's why she created the end state, the result and opposite of consolidation: entroposcopossicity."

A small, pot-bellied man named Russ stepped forward. "Like when I leave a cord in my pocket too long, and it gets all jangled up!"

Mr. Rampart, slyly reading the man's lightly worn nametag, thundered back a response: "Precisely! That's precisely right, Russ. The good woman in the sky created a beautiful, wholly cohesive mass of things, scientists call 'em 'particles,' and she proceeded, to dedicate her subsequent existence, to tearing it all to pieces!"

A diminutive, meek child looked up from her cigarette. "The big bang!"

Mr. Rampart nodded enthusiastically to the girl, and gave her a 20$ bill, as a light gesture of philanthropy, rewarding her insight. "Gee-willickers," she said, stunned. "I don't think I've ever even heard of a bill this big!"

"You keep spouting off science like that, young girl, and you'll be stacking bills higher than you are." The girl put it in her pocket, and Mr. Rampart grinned, feeling like Santa Claus. He'd finished his cola by now, and figured he'd said what he needed to say. He bent down into his vintage, authentic Cadillac parked proximately, and waved his new friends adieu. His car radio dial was busted, as of a day ago, and he couldn't switch  from the raucous, abhorrent surf-rock channel the local college polluted the one airwave he had access to with. He sat in silence. Mr. Rampart was a man's man: he preferred the classics.

buster had been convinced that a sudden eschaton ruptured his Earth by a wandering spirit, late one night in the throes of a heady cough syrup binge, in June of 2025. he believed that his wife, Karlie, and his two beautiful twin baby daughters, Rebecca and Rachel, had been escorted directly into the Astral Plane by the rupture, and that his presence in his world was proof enough that he would be in no way part of this happily-forever-after vacation palace. logically, he held up a convenience store in his throes of incorrectness, stealing enough Nord refills and gin to last three and a half weeks of, by his standards, heavy usage. the trailer of the 18-wheeler he vocationally rented from SimpleSave Corporate LLC, a shipping hyper-corporation manifestly disguised as a minor Southwestern budget grocery chain, was filled to the brim with little pockmarked bottles of canola oil. with them as his sole source of caloric energy, buster vaped, laid down, coughed cacophonously, drank minimal amounts of canola to stave off hangovers, and jacked off, finding himself happier than he had been since his late tweens. his vapes ran out after eight days, and he found himself fiending so hard that he couldn’t breathe. withdrawal, while painful, was not painful enough for him to trudge through the afterscape. he crossed his arms, lips pursed, and decided to wait for death to come to him.



death did not come for buster in the first seventeen seconds. it did not come in the next seventeen minutes. after twenty-nine minutes of waiting, and fixating on waiting, buster decided to expedite things. buster was supposed to wear contacts, at all times, but especially when driving. he did not wear them at all, and in this moment they were sitting quietly in his chest-of-drawers, nine states away. buster reached to his right, hoping to snag a quick swig of canola. contactless, he grabbed the piss-bottle. to be fair, it was the same type of bottle, and the piss was fresh, still yellow, and a bit warm. buster was upset by this. he sat up for the first time in days, and got a profound head rush, passing out

...    

buster woke up about 22 hours later. to him, it seemed like he'd traveled back in time. the tattered graphic tee clinging to buster’s back, which now smelled vaguely of MSG and intensely of ass, had been once emblazoned with the phrase “F.B.I: Female Body Inspector.” most of the letters had been since rubbed off, to the point now where it read more like “Fe  l  	 In     o ”.

That’s almost “The End,” isn’t it?

buster left his cab a couple of hours later, out of listlessness, anomie. he decided to wander, no longer fearing death. after a couple of hours, maybe a half mile out, he was lost, and insufficiently hydrated by his “little-sips” technique for keeping the canola down. buster decided to take a power nap, as he needed something restorative.

an hour later, buster woke up laying face-down in the sand with his mouth wide open, his self so thoroughly dried out that the mouth-skin and the face-skin were just about as moist as each other. he couldn't taste anything with his brittled-out tastebuds, and couldn't hear the squeal of hot tires a quarter mile to his right, off a major highway, with his brittled-out earholes. as he regained consciousness, he slowly, stiffly crawled forward, stomach distended, flesh in rags. he was clutching a softly warped plastic bottle that had been slow-microwaved by the dry sun. it only had about a tablespoon of canola oil left, a lot of it had spilled out. buster was about a half mile from the trailer, which he'd run clean off I-40 somewhen beyond his memory. the trailer was itself connected to a sleeper cab, containing bottles of other substances like piss, gin, and vape-juice. he was fully disoriented, however, and this information was a perpetually distant quantity.

buster felt near death. he was only moving his arms now, trying and mostly failing to go toward the sound of cars, his sole bastion of nostalgia within reach. his body was sticky and uncomfortably hot, but he was beginning to feel a cool lukewarmness around his legs and waist. he wasn’t quite ready to give in to it completely, but there was no halting or reversing its slow crawl up his self. he considered his wife. she was dead now, he thought. he wouldn’t be seeing her again, but he sent out into the universe a meek request that couldn’t quite be considered a prayer, that in the heck or Hell he was undoubtedly headed toward, his memories of her would not be pried out of his skull, and he could continue to remember her voice and vibe in his eternal torment. the lukewarm radiation was up to his nipples now. he’d be unable to move in about twenty seconds at this rate. he grabbed the sand ahead weakly, hopelessly, and felt a wooden box. novelty. the other hand affirmed his eyes and left were not deceiving him, and with everything he had left he pulled the top off. inside the box was a classic-style, uncanny little ventriloquist dummy. he had big cartoon googly eyes, a long skinny pinnochio nose, a wide open-mouth soyface, and a cute little red-velvet three-piece suit. buster wasn’t able to recognize that the puppet wasn’t human, and he quickly removed him from


the box, thinking of him as a trapped baby. he felt the puppet’s hole as he pulled him out by the light and, mostly by accident, his hand slipped inside.

Buster was now revitalized, suddenly full of energy, and immensely aware of his situation. He knew his location to be (34.972828, -110.529749), and he knew the name of his new puppet pal to be “Wacko!™.”

Wacko exclaimed, “It’s me, Wacko!”
   	 
Buster said, “Hello, Wacko, I’m Buster.” Once he did, he noticed that he hadn’t pursed his lips, or expelled any air.  He said, “Wait, did I actually say that?”

“Yes, you did,” said Wacko. “I understood you tele-muh-pathically. Wacko’s gonna be your little helper now.”

Buster was elated. He had always wanted a little helper. “I am elated, too,” said Wacko, who now opened his little wooden puppet mouth up and down real quick, imitating laughter. Buster was laughing, too, and when he subsided he sighed, big of mouth, at ease.


way items

potatoes
garlic
goats -> butter, cheese
chickens
peppers
onions
radishes -> poison
peaches and cherries   -> alcohol, vinegar
wheat
shrooms -> psychedelic and nutritious
cabbage
soy
corn
weed
poppies


coffee? chocolate? media?


most spices (molly, sote, and lsd) stockpiled, saffron fresh. he has more tea chocolate and coffee vacuum sealed than he knows what to do with, a lifetime battery with solar power
essentially, butter is difficult, and busters canola stash would be life changing
soil imported a long time ago down 100 feet by way. water from ocean with simple private desalinization

he catches fish


the survivors live off the potatoes garlic seawater. they are malnourished, very little fat, until buster comes along with his vegetable oil. he gives them a crate for 45$, the last human fiat transaction. he strikes a deal with way and his sons, giving up the rest for permanent grazing rights. he tells the survivors, and on having run out of oil they run a heist. way sits on top with a gun. he watches them snatch some peppers and chickens, standing down. when they find the subterranean oil bunker, he slinks after them, shooting rico. now it’s war.




ODE - a story about jfkxlho, being gay in the south, and american terrorism

//TONE DEBT - mitski, car seat headrest, but im a cheerleader
	//26. LOVE CRIME: someone’s beloved is against their moral framework, causing turmoil.
	//25. ADULTERY: here cuckold learns and gets angry.
	//22. SACRIFICE FOR PASSION: vice sullies the good situation.
	//5. PURSUIT: a fugitive evades an enforcer.
	//32. MISPLACED ENVY: the jealous was misinformed and acts on it.
	//36. LOSS: loved one dies.
//DRUGS: weed, alc, shrooms
//PARTICULAR CREATURES: bloody mary, land pyrosome, immortals, super-intelligent were-deer, witches, nymphs (WIND, WATER, WOOD, OIL, NUCLEAR, FTNR-XCV-LL), time loops, coffee-blooded guys with wheels

	

    
moon was pretty horrible when you got to know them. they had one of those coy, tragic backstories that folks without one find engrossing. they weren’t from ozarkia, wouldn’t go into much detail about what brought them here. they lived out of that abandoned gas station right next to Exit 58, Oil King, the one with the dilapidated Googie beckoners and  murdered out windows. moon took no efforts to clean up the place. they liked to live in filth.


