I am a White individual from Arkansas. My parents were both the first in their families to go to college, and they loved it. My mom taught Gender at the University of Central Arkansas for the first five-ish years of my childhood, and my family lived in a dorm for most of that, in an old-timey "teacher's quarters" sort of setup. Everybody in that dorm was my friend: I now have many aunts and uncles. This made it clear to a young me that racism, sexism, and anything like that was a societal evil that I was firmly against. 

As you might expect, the above viewpoint was not normal among people my age, especially when I was 12-16. I became very used to arguing against overt homophobia and racism, developing specialized arguments to twist faulty logic about itself until it snapped. My goal was not really to change anyone's mind, moreso to get them off my back and to make the public more pleasant for friends who weren't white. 

Immediately after Covid, about 2 in 3 of my friends dropped out of college. Most of them blamed the sudden shift to online classes, but then, most were not swayed to come back after they were, once again, in-person. Many of them got straight As in high school. I do not believe that I am smarter or a harder worker than any of them, I was just lucky. When I consider that luck, and the fact that most Arkansans recieved far less of an opportunity than I did, I recognize my priviledge.


I credit my ability to persist through the Quiet Time to my daily meanders through walking-distance woods and lack of usage of social media (except a brief spurt in June, to support those protesting police brutality). My family is lovely, but they do not make that list, because during the roughest part I was of no help to them, and they were of no help to me, due to factors beyond anyone's control.


We grew up, and 



The most important lesson that I learned in all of my math classes is that recognizing that I am wrong is a good thing, because it is the only path through which I can gain knowledge. 




