Personal Statement

The most important lesson that I learned in all of my math classes is that recognizing that I am wrong is a good thing, because it is the only path through which I can gain knowledge. When I am made aware of a prejudice that I have unknowingly engaged in, I consider what I was incorrect about, and modify my behavior.

I've written for my campus newsletter for as long as I've been able to. One day, it was suggested in a writer's meeting that an article on racial bias in club leadership needed to be written. Nobody else wanted it, so I decided to, in collaboration with a friend with relevant expertise. We spent hours researching obtuse, elusive statistics on Hendrix extracurriculars, ultimately turning in a somewhat radical article called "Club Homogeneity". My editor needed to defend the article in front of the student senate, as those with power tarred the article as being poorly-researched "fake news". This was demonstrated to not be the case, and we ultimately opened up a necessary dialogue on campus about racism. 

Corona was an intense hardship. I spent almost a year in online classes, and was not able to socialize freely or engage in research on campus for most of my undergraduate experience. I have not completely assessed all of the impacts that this has had on myself and my peers, but the fact that I have persisted past this massive hurdle while maintaining passion for what I do is a privilege. I'm the only person my age that I've ever met who likes what they do, and maintains a gentle optimism for the future. 

I will always remember, a year or so after the pandemic, when the Jimmy John's Work GroupMe lit up my phone's lockscreen. "As food service employees, we're now eligible for the vaccine" - something like that. I immediately called the number linked, and made an appointment a week on. It was several towns over, but the prospect of being able to interact with the world again was so tantalizing that I could not take a later day. When I got the vaccine, I felt a shift. I could suddenly think about the future without getting anxious and forcing myself to stop. It didn't feel good, yet, but that was when the derivative became positive.

Arkansas, my home, is one of the poorest states in the nation. I have not had as many opportunities to affect the world as many of your applicants. Communities are small and spread thin where I am from. Most of my friends either did not go to college or dropped out immediately after March of 2020. Many of them had gotten straight As in high school. I do not believe that I am smarter than them. I am lucky, in many ways I am aware of and many that I am not, and willing to work hard for my passions. 