Kane - Math is my passion, code is my method. Your work in Number Theory and Combinatorics is intriguing to me: I've never met someone who's taken a genuine crack at the $abc$ conjecture (or equivalent - Navier-Stokes, P=NP, Riemann, Collatz, et. al), and brought back some bounds to show for it. I'm interested in solving very hard, not-been-done-before mathematical problems, utilizing the hyper-math tools that only sprung up half a century ago to pursue insight.

I like all sorts of problems, I'm not picky, but at the moment I'm compelled by partitions, RNG, probability, combinatoric game theory (which I usually just call 'Nim Theory'), recurrence relations, tilings, graphs, polyominoes, and formal systems. I'm exceedingly eager to work on anything remotely mathematical. For example, I've not had exposure to the advanced Computational Complexity Theory beyond the standard Algorithms training, but I find the limits of current human knowledge in that discipline wildly compelling, and would be elated to work hard toward bringing down those sorts of walls, and to learn in the process. 

I'm curious about your recent progress in Distribution Testing. Distance metrics are vital to any sort of automatic categorization, and I want to learn more about the state of the art in determining whether datums possess a given property, assuming the datums are themselves distributions. My current Machine Learning project involves General Game Systems, in which games can absolutely be represented as distributions. Testing of properties, in a hierarchical, Decision-Tree sort of way, could allow for distance measures based on emergent strategic behavior. 

In general, I want to apply probabilistic and combinatoric techniques to large datasets in the context of Machine Learning.  Zoomers don't have dream jobs. I desire to spend my working hours using my mind to solve problems in a mentally engaging sort of way. I can offer you zeal, commitment, and the necessary hours.



Berg-Kirkpatrick - AI's about enabling a machine to understand relevant aspects of a situation, dynamically adapting them to a problem-solving strategy. It was only after I learned about how to write parsers and context-free grammars that I began examining our most complex system, that web of phonemes to morphemes to phrases to so on. I want to study information conveyance systems, which your varied applications to domains like music and chipmunk behavior demonstrate the scope of well. Linguistics is similar to Math and CS in that the "Unsolved Problems in X" section on Wikipedia is long and full of essential, practical issues - I like that in a discipline. 

Linguistics is similar to Math in another way. Depending on what you want to compute, machines have been faster and more accurate than the best human at sheer calculation for between 25 (Chess) and 200 (Arithmetic) years. Comprehension of large bodies of information is there, sort of, and this is excellent news. Calculators did not spell the end of mathematical exploration, they empowered humans to do more of it, as the average math-slinger was able to solve problems at a higher level of abstraction, pushing the discipline further with their time.

I've always loved conlangs, particularly those which allow modular construction of arbitrary concepts from a small vocabulary, like Toki Pona (~150 words) and BASIC English (~1000 words). I love how they allow for semantic compression, breaking complex and difficult-to-analyze concepts down to their relevant, distinguishing components. I want to assist in your research efforts, building systems and methods capable of processing and analyzing information, because I find the work compelling and fulfilling, and ancillarily believe it will be profoundly useful in facing the litany of scientific and historical unknowns that prior generations have left for us.