Algorithms excites me a lot. From reading the syllabus, it appears the work will feel more like math than coding. A lot of the concepts we'll cover, like asymptotic analysis and graph theory, are things that I'm well aware that I do not know enough about, that I plan to engage with to whatever extent necessary to understand them. It is also a requirement for the degree. 

I just got a hold on my account (pray for me y'all the billing center never gave numbers for the cost that weren't estimates) but I am trying to switch out of Fiction and into AI. I was of the mind that cultivating skills in creative writing translates well not just to coding as an act of endurance, but to maintaining an imagination capable of summoning cool ideas for things to code. AI looks better, though, because there's still a lot of work-time I'll be spending English-writing, my summer research and thesis has and will deal (and dealt) heavily with AI, and I feel that this course will give me a broader understanding of this rapidly growing subdiscipline. Also, I finally finished Godel, Escher, Bach! this summer and even though its old and baroque it got me really excited for what applied formal systems are capable of, not to mention it essentially ending with Doug going "Go West, Young Man!" except instead of West its AI. 

Senior Seminar is a degree requirement, but also, I'm really eager to continue my summer research. I got a few card games to work with both syntax and AI, learned a whole lot about how games work in .lud format, and for the most part got over my childhood fear of Java. I plan to study up on Nash Equilibria, Constraint-Satisfaction Problems, Dr. Goadrich's game system ReCYCLE, and other existing hidden-information AIs in the interest of implementing a hidden-information AI capable of doing better than the current general-MCTS AI, which usually doesn't switch in the Monty Hall problem if you force it not to cheat. Also, I read like three books this summer on surreal numbers and game positions. I'm interested in whether Conway's methods will prove insightful in a non-combinatoric, general context like Ludii. I'm confident I'll have a good time.

I'm in Disco Tray too. I had a good time developing games last semester and want to continue building stuff in Unity. I'm really excited for this one, but I've been talking too long. 