THREE OCCASIONS ON WHICH I WAS CHASED THROUGH THE WOODS BY A PACK OF GERMAN SHEPARDS

I lived next to a vivid, saccharine patch of woods throughout my youth, and spent a great deal of time and energy roaming it aimlessly. It was always an enjoyable challenge to get lost in the small forest, no more than a mile across at any point, trying to pretend that I didn't know precisely where I was in relation to the hazy landmarks, and my personal understanding of the network of unmanaged pathways, kempt only by the burst of an occasional four-wheeler, usually manned by a shit-rich fourteen-year-old wearing camo pants and a mustache. It took a six-minute trudge up a mud-colored hill to see much of anything green, but I was up there constantly in childhood, spurred only by boredom masquerading as the Satanic, manifestedly deleterious and yet entirely rational urge to explore. Then, something frightening happened ["loss of innocence"].

Once I got to be an adolescent I became less autistic, and began to make friends. Some of these friends were given cars, unfettered television access, and drugs, by the cold, dead, and invisible hand of the market. None of them were entertained by the woods. So, for a couple years, I spent my free time in rank, poorly ventilated rooms, watching the men play Dungeons and Dragons. Then I went to college, content with not really going outside again for the foreseeable future. The weed flowed like water at Hendrix College Campus, and as a gangly little kid I loved living in shit. I went to college really young on a lot of scholarships, so the societal and economic implications didn't really present themselves to me until all my friends dropped out, in a fell swoop, with the baying cthonic rascal-scream of the Covid Virus. I suddenly had to move back home, living with two immunocompromised grandparents, and a noided, shell-shocked nuclear family unit uninterested in sharing their drugs with me. The woods were once again my respite, despite things having become somewhat out of hand, weeds, bugs, and brush overgrown, taller than me. The sun was intense enough to be audible, and ticks were a given. The fickle, unmoored natural world was good enough for me, the crickets quivering through dusk like gentle singer-songwriters. 

My first run-in with the German Shephards was a surprise. I was ten minutes into the woods, walking on a narrow, long corridor. I called it "Pink Street," because it was your first big burst of foliage on my standard circuit [the optimal Hamiltonian cycle with weighted paths]. The sudden ~5 degree drop in temperature and dank little mushrooms had your average pedestrian feeling right as rain. This day was good: cloudy and fifty-five degrees. The bugs would be spiders or better: the ticks were gone, and Brood X (a whole 'nother story) was nine months out. The air was dry, but the ground was damp, thickly mossed and grassed, peppered with little half-baked dandelion or honeysuckle rejects from the sticky summer, bowing to the divine will of the Null Gardener. I could hear birds, and faint traffic. At once, three or four big dogs, ungroomed and uncollared, came suddenly into eyeshot bursting from the foliage, out onto the path, doing Tactical Operations. They noticed me instantly, and began barking and woofing and running all out after me. This was not a sensation that I had ever felt in the woods. Snakes and spiders and people were unsettling, sure, but they never gave chase. I started running up a nearby hill, zigzagging, trying to get myself out of sight. I'm asthmatic, not built to run, so when I was doubled over maybe thirty seconds out, gasping for breath, I grabbed the largest rock I could find, as a potential weapon. I couldn't hear or see the Shepards anymore, so I jogged my way out of the woods, brisk, but ultimately nonplussed. I didn't see them again for a few months, and figured some hee-haw bumpkin let his dogs out running to scare indie youths. 


The next time I ran into the dogs was about a month later, one of the few times I convinced other people to join me in the woods. It was Michael, a close friend who fancied himself an big-brother figure, and his erstwhile middle school pal Elijah. The three of us had a blunt to split, gutted. Michael's parents were standard issue Trump supporters; They fucked to Lou Dobbs, and naturally, hated weed. So, at nightfall, we snuck out into the woods, up to the old Acid Containment Unit from the Second World War scattered with the concrete debris up before the flora. Being in the woods at night is a funny thing. If I'm alone, it usually happens due to bad planning, and all of a sudden my threat-assessment and response capabilities are greatly diminished. This instills in me a great paranoia, and an optional speed boost. The paranoia, unfortunately, is lessened when one is in the presence of others. So, recklessly, I puffed and passed for a little while. Some concrete shards came up out of the ground just enough to be sort of like seats, so we sat on them. Michael had Elijah's phone, for some reason, and was using it as a flashlight as he pressed an ancillary bowl down with his thumb into one of those oblong glass beaker-looking pipes with sangfroid and serenity. Strikingly, the first thing we noticed from the Shephards was not their "woofs" and "barks," but the impression of their movement, faster than us, gaining. We booked it from the slab, with Michael unfortunately at the rear for the full twenty seconds it took us to hightail it out of there. There was some serious discussion at the prospect Michael raised of us having to return, as he thought he had left Elijah's phone, but fortunately he had only left it in his back pocket, and was too caked up to notice. He had left his pipe, grinder, and a couple of grams, but at this point he had gone through the confiscation cycle three or four times, and was content to let the woods have it. I went back out in the daytime, the next day, in the interest of retrieving the contraband, but found it to have been unsurprisingly yoinked by that point by one of the buzzcut preppies, or perhaps a ghost.

The last time was about five months after that. The dogs never dissuaded me from going in the woods, but at this point I had totally forgotten about them, and figured they'd gotten tied together and sent back to Hell or something. It was cold in March; the seasons during that first Covid year felt intangibly more crisp and natural in such a multifacted, devastating fashion that I'd be relunctant to finger any effect but the Placebo. I was off-path, as I usually was when the seasons were about to change, out in that segment south of Town Way where all you could see in any direction were some staggered skinny pines, and big rocks covered in a dense blanket of moss. A big, live patch of moss is like crack or citrus to rub your face and hands onto, and I was sprawled out all over it, face-down, like a cat in a sunbeam. It smelled like how water tastes: utter existence. For what could have been five seconds or an hour, I looked into the curly green network and pretended to be moss, empty-headed, free of sin.

This time was funnier than the first two. I didn't really get to running until the Shepards were almost 50 feet away from me, and I was groggy, still somewhat at zen. They were a little slower, too, and I nevertheless hauled ass, getting out in about a minute. What made this time weird was that the Shepards didn't lose sight of me once I got out: they followed me down the road, and caught up to me in the middle of a suburban-ass neighborhood, forming a circle. I was very scared, and after trying and failing to push them away with my backpack and water bottle, I looked up as the truck to my left came to a stop. The driver, disquietingly, did not get out of his vehicle or offer any sort of assisstance, and just sort of watched, causing a minor traffic jam. The next car, a clean, white sedan containing a high-school aged White girl, also sat silently. The dogs, fortunately, weren't biting me, just sort of circling and yelling. I could barely walk, but they were ultimately more of a hindrance than a danger. Then, in a deus ex machina that would be malpractice in the other two Unit Writings, a third car joined the queue, containing my father. He was understandably a little perturbed, but I rushed in and insisted that he drive away. I never encountered the Shepards again, and didn't augment my behavior in the slightest.