360: REVISE PROJ1 SOON, M8 3/13, P2 3/17

370: LAB5 (Pirate Hunters)

307: ARIAS

497: GALAXIES ENGINE GUI, 50 pgs of puzzles in Tikz notation, MATRIX NOTATION PROOF

pf: DOW, INTERVIEWS CS DEPT ON GPT, MCKIM, DOWNES, 










what does the "post" in "post-rock" mean to you?

CONWAY, Ark. (February 24, 2020) – By day, Hendrix College philosophy professor Dr. James Dow rocks the mic(rophone) in class, teaching courses on Sanity and Madness, Environmental Aesthetics, and Theories of Reality, to name a few. 

By night, Dow and fellow professor friends rock out as THISNESS, a band that aims “to blend sounds from psychedelic rock, post-punk, and southern gothic genres.” 

The group’s debut public performance will be Thursday, Feb. 27, at Stickyz in Little Rock, supporting Midnight Wagon, a four-piece indie punk rock band from Mena, Ark., and Notice to Quit, a three-piece rock band from Hot Springs. Doors open at 7:30 p.m., and the show starts at 8:30 p.m. THISNESS plays around 9:30 or so. Admission is $6. 

In addition to Dow’s vocal and rhythm guitar contributions, the band includes UCA philosophy professor Dr. Jesse Butler (lead guitar), Arkansas Tech University poetry and creative writing professor Dr. Chris Carrier (drums), and University of Arkansas at Little Rock philosophy professor Dr. Michael Norton (bass guitar). 

The group practices at Dow’s farm home in Hickory Hill, and they are currently working on a concept album called “Flood” based on a tragic narrative about a rough hero that discovers a feral woman in the Black Hills of South Dakota. The band hopes to begin recording this spring in Little Rock.  

Dow, who joined the Hendrix faculty in fall 2011, is chair of the College’s Neuroscience Program and director of The Marshall T. Steel Center for the Study of Religion and Philosophy. Naturally, he is also taking music classes to complete a music major at Hendrix. 

This article came a month before covid. how does it feel, as a band, to be so at the mercy of the entropic, omega-show-cancelling ultravirus?

tell me about your farm, how you came into Morrilton (describe my mother) as a collegiate Jersey guy?

How did you come to Neuroscience, as a philosophy professor?

How do you grade philosophy?

Do you find students to be more attentive when you hold class outside?