Transportation

The systems of conveyance both through and within Arkansas involve routes that include land, air, and water. Because of Arkansas’s geographic location along the Mississippi, Arkansas, and Red rivers, water routes have been particularly important. Land routes have been much affected by the landscapes of the six natural divisions within the state, and achieving travel avenues of roads and railroads posed many problems, both for transportation through the state and among the divisions within the state.

Pre-European Exploration
Paleolithic hunters who arrived in Arkansas more than 10,000 years ago appropriated trails beaten down by herds of mastodons and then bison. These trails became the basis for human societal development through transportation. The most significant land route, later called the Southwest Trail, ran along the edge of the Ozark escarpment from modern-day St. Louis, Missouri, south to modern-day Little Rock (Pulaski County). Then it followed the Ouachita escarpment south to Texas. Another important trail ran down the edge of the western plains, roughly paralleling Arkansas’s modern western border. A third land route ran along Crowley’s Ridge. Because of the difficulty in crossing a flood plain laterally, no major east-west trail seems to have crossed the Mississippi Alluvial Plain. Animals also created a network of local trails along streams, along the tops of ridges, and into valleys and springs.

Arkansas’s prehistory spanned more than 10,000 years and witnessed dramatic changes from hunter-gatherer cultures to sophisticated agricultural chiefdoms. Wide-ranging trade was central to these developments. Because stones suitable for making spear points were not universally available, stones from Missouri and from the Ouachita Mountains were carried overland for distribution. After 8500 BC, the introduction of a tool called the adz made it easy to construct canoes from single trees. Six forms, differing primarily in prow and bow designs, have been recorded, and trade increased greatly in consequence. Other traded items were fruits and vegetables from Mexico, seashells that came up from the Caribbean Sea, and copper that came from the Great Lakes. Just outside Fort Smith (Sebastian County) in Spiro, Oklahoma, is a site remarkably rich in trade goods because western and eastern tribes met and traded there.

European Exploration and Settlement
The Hernando de Soto expedition spent 1541 to 1543 in Arkansas. Along with boats constructed with nails, the Spanish brought horses and hogs. The arrival of French explorers Father Jacques Marquette and Louis Joliet in 1673 promoted further French exploration by René-Robert Cavelier, Sieur de La Salle, which itself led to Henri de Tonti’s creation of Arkansas Post (Arkansas County) in 1686. During the French and Spanish colonial period (1686–1802) the Osage, from Missouri, met regularly with French and Spanish authorities where Cadron Creek empties into the Arkansas River. Historians presume that they had a direct land route down through the Boston Mountains in the Ozark Plateau.

During the colonial period, a wide variety of watercraft were used in Arkansas. For local travel, boats called pirogues, each fashioned from a single log, were often large enough to carry passengers and freight. The bateau, of flat-bottomed construction with a roof-covered enclosed section in the rear, was superseded by the keelboat. These boats had a longitudinal board (the keel) attached to the bottom to keep the boat going in a straight line, making the boats easier to pole, pull, or paddle upstream. A combination of poling and pulling was more common than paddling when trying to move boats upstream, and most of the larger vessels also had sails. For poling, the boatmen used a pirogue to carry a rope up to a strong tree and then pulled the boat forward, staying in the eddies as much as possible. Six miles a day was considered good time on the faster rivers. In 1778, Spanish governor Fernando de Leyba took ninety-three days to ascend the Mississippi River by bateau from New Orleans, Louisiana, to St. Louis. It took only a quarter of that time to go downstream. Local residents also constructed flatboats for carrying cargo to New Orleans, where the boats were then broken up and sold for firewood.

Few improvements were made on land routes. The Spanish surveyed a road, known as the King’s Highway, from St. Louis down the west bank of the Mississippi River. The name and portions of the road itself are still in use today.

Louisiana Purchase through Early Statehood
After the Louisiana Purchase transferred Arkansas to the United States, the area’s population increased greatly. Most settlers from eastern states used combinations of water and land routes to come to Arkansas. One problem they encountered was that the Ouachita, White, Red, and Arkansas rivers, as well as other streams, were often of insufficient and inconsistent volume to support regular use. The first steamboats were patterned on eastern models and tended to experience problems when they left the Mississippi River, as they were designed for deeper waters. The Comet, the first steamboat to reach Arkansas Post in 1820, almost stayed lodged on a sandbar. Two years later, the Eagle reached Little Rock. Within ten years, however, steamboats were redesigned so that they needed only a few feet of water. The popularity of the steamboat was due to its speed, which could reach six miles an hour. Such boats plied the St. Francis, Ouachita, Black, Little Red, lower Buffalo, and Cache rivers, as well as other waterways, well into the 1930s. The federal government supported water transportation by clearing away “rafts,” or log jams, most notably on the Red River. An enormous rise in Red River land values and the expansion of plantation slavery into that region were directly due to the work of Captain Henry Shreve, whose snag boats cleared a passage through the enormous jam.

The ships on western waters were not as luxurious as those found on the Mississippi River. Shipwrecks were common, and one newspaper correspondent called the Arkansas River “the graveyard of steamboats.” The average life of a boat was only three years, but unless the boiler exploded, the engine was often salvaged. Much cotton went to market on these boats, but insurance rates were among the highest in America.

Because early Arkansas plantations were likely to be located along streams, planters put in their own wharfs, and, by dealing directly with far-away wholesale merchants, retarded the development of Arkansas towns. Canals, a prominent feature of internal improvements in the eastern states, were not suitable to Arkansas’s terrain. However, most travelers coming from the north accessed the Arkansas River via what was known as the White River cutoff, which became a ship canal in the twentieth century.

In addition to clearing waterways, the federal government also spent money on road improvement and construction. The first improvements took place on the Southwest Trail, which by 1818 was rendered suitable for wagon use as far south as Polk or Poke Bayou (later known as Batesville) in Independence County. From there, it continued on to Little Rock and then to Texas. New construction focused primarily on building a road from Hopefield (Crittenden County), opposite Memphis, Tennessee, to Little Rock. Difficulties abounded because the surveyors routed theroad through lowlands and swamps. The specifications called for the road to be twenty-four feet wide. Brush and saplings were to be removed, but trees had only to be cut to within four inches of the ground. Another survey extended the road to Fort Smith on the western border.

Ferry boats served in place of bridges. Steam ferries operated at Little Rock, Memphis, and Helena (Phillips County). The counties licensed such operations, and rates were fixed by the county courts. In 1846, the Little Rock Bridge Company built a private toll bridge over the Ouachita River at Rockport (Hot Spring County) only to have it washed away two years later. The principal rivers remained un-bridged until the twentieth century. Only a few privately owned toll roads existed by the end of the nineteenth century.

County governments oversaw the building of roads at the local level. Persons wanting a road in the vicinity of their land petitioned the county, and if the county court approved, the road was laid out. The county required that residents either pay a fee or work up to twelve days on building and maintaining the roads under the county’s direction. The first law entrusted enforcement and maintenance to “overseers.” Persons trying to avoid this onerous task were subject to fines. The absence of any year-round maintenance led to universal adoption of the folk custom of residents making paths around road damage and any obstacles in the road rather than fixing the problem. By the twentieth century, roads that once had been laid out straight had become winding routes. Because of its poor roads, Arkansas had poor mail service. The state’s well-earned reputation for discarded, damaged, and late mail retarded modernization.

Horses were highly prized, both for riding and for pulling carriages and wagons. Many common people came to Arkansas in wagons pulled by oxen. A good team on a good day could average two miles an hour. Mules were somewhat faster. Many farmers could afford only mules instead of horses, so mules were used for hauling and ridden like horses.

In the nineteenth century, horse-drawn vehicles of various kinds were also known by a wide range of names. The terms “whimmy-diddle” and “go cart” were used, but perhaps the most common name for a public conveyance was “trick.” Farm wagons transported many people to town and church, while wealthier people had carriages. Fast-moving stagecoaches pulled by matched teams were as unknown as paved post roads. Passengers climbing the Boston Mountains to Fayetteville (Washington County) in were charged ten cents a mile but often had to get out and walk on the steepest grades. In 1858, this mountain route became part of the Butterfield’s Overland Mail Company’s famous western route.

Arkansas’s water and land routes were used during the federal government’s program of expelling eastern Native American tribes from their ancestral lands. Although the Cherokee migration is commonly spoken of as the Trail of Tears, the Cherokee used three land routes though Arkansas. Chief John Ross and many of the financially well-off members ascended the Arkansas River by steamboat. The Bell party took the road from Memphis to Little Rock and then followed the road that ran north of the Arkansas River. Another party bisected only the northwest corner of the state. The Benge party crossed the Mississippi River near Cape Girardeau, Missouri, and passed near Batesville and through Fayetteville. In addition, Choctaw, Seminole, Chickasaw, and Creek tribes all passed through the state on their way west. Much economic interchange accompanied the migrations and continued across the border, with the route west from Fort Smith into Indian Territory appearing on maps as the Whiskey Road.

Another use of Arkansas’s transportation modes came during the California Gold Rush. Fort Smith and Van Buren (Crawford County) were departure points for a southern route that eventually reached Salt Lake City, Utah. One section was known as the Cherokee route. Eastern gold seekers generally took steamboats to the embarkation points and there began their trek by wagon, horse, or foot across the continent. Arkansas cattlemen used this route to take herds to the California market. With the introduction of the telegraph in the state in 1860, a new term, “wire road,” came into use when poles followed the road right of way.

The construction of railroads became a critical issue in the 1850s. Whigs supported a state-financed railroad plan, while Democrats opposed it. In 1852, Democrat Elias Nelson Conway was elected governor on the oxymoronic platform of “good dirt roads.” However, the largely Whig merchant communities of Memphis and Little Rock pushed ahead with the Memphis and Little Rock Railroad. This project so infuriated citizens of Helena that Helena’s Masons refused to support Little Rock’s newly established Masonic institution, St. Johns’ College. Construction of this railroad was stopped due to the economic downturn in 1858. At the start of the Civil War, the section connecting Hopefield and the St. Francis River at Madison (St. Francis County) was complete, and substantial work had been done from Little Rock to DeValls Bluff (Prairie County).

The Democrats countered with the federally backed Cairo and Fulton Railroad. Cairo, Illinois, which envisioned itself as the great metropolis of the Midwest, was tied to Chicago, Illinois, via the Illinois Central Railroad and hoped to extend its reach into Texas. The Missouri division of the Cairo & Fulton began construction at Bird’s Point in Missouri and then headed west to the Ozark escarpment. Almost thirty miles were in service by 1861. Roswell Beebe was the principal promoter of the Arkansas section. The survey was complete, but construction did not come until after the Civil War. Today, the town of Beebe (White County) bears the name of Roswell Beebe.

Civil War through Reconstruction
The Civil War affected transportation in several ways. The Confederacy helped finance the completion of the Memphis and Little Rock Railroad’s Little Rock to DeValls Bluff section. The war stopped all commercial riverboat traffic. The Union army invaded using river routes, but low water on the White River kept supply ships from reaching Union general Samuel Curtis’s army in the spring of 1862, forcing him to march overland to Helena. The 1865 explosion and sinking of the Sultana, an overloaded Union hospital ship, on the Mississippi River resulted in approximately 1,700 casualties, more than the Titanic disaster. Because of Arkansas’s legendary backwardness with regard to its infrastructure, General Frederick Steele’s invading army carried its own bridge. This pontoon bridge was finally abandoned after the Engagement at Jenkins’ Ferry.

During Reconstruction, Republicans provided state financing for railroads. With state aid, the Memphis and Little Rock Railroad completed the middle section between Forrest City (St. Francis County) and DeValls Bluff in 1871. However, its flood-prone Delta roadbed led to the rise of the legend of the “Slow Train through Arkansas.” Other state-funded routes included a line from Little Rock south to Pine Bluff (Jefferson County) and into the southeastern part of the state. The Mississippi, Ouachita, and Red River Valley Railroad got bogged down in the swamps and remained unfinished, which hampered economic development in southern Arkansas.

A Missouri railroad, the St. Louis, Iron Mountain, and Southern (a.k.a. Iron Mountain), acquired the Cairo and Fulton Railroad interests in Arkansas in 1868. St. Louis, which viewed itself as the “Lion of the Valley,” diverted the main line from Cairo to St. Louis and greatly expanded its business in Arkansas. Railroad traffic increased greatly with the building of the Baring Cross Bridge across the Arkansas River in 1873.

The Little Rock and Fort Smith Railroad, surveyed before the war, was completed. A national scandal over the marketing of its bonds undermined the political career of Republican presidential hopeful James G. Blaine, who became known as “The Continental Liar from the State of Maine” as a result. After the Democrats regained control of the state in 1874, Arkansas repudiated some $7 million of its railroad debts.

Post-Reconstruction through the Early Twentieth Century
Large sections of the Mississippi levee system had been destroyed in the Civil War and remained in a state of disrepair until the 1879 creation of the Mississippi River Commission led to major levee repair and new construction. Among the early projects was the rebuilding of the Maroon Swamp levee, first built in 1857, which kept Mississippi River floodwaters from entering the St. Francis River basin.

Meanwhile, a series of locks and dams made the White River navigable above Batesville. The construction of drainage ditches had a negative impact on water traffic on the St. Francis River, but at Marked Tree (Poinsett County), a siphon and lock kept some navigation alive on the St. Francis River into the 1950s. Railroads won decisive victories when, after the passage of the Rivers and Harbors Act of 1909, most upkeep and improvements of the waterways were abandoned.

Between 1874 and 1910, numerous competing railroads sought prosperity. Thus the Iron Mountain cut into the Memphis and Little Rock Railroad’s market by building a better-suited route from Bald Knob (White County) to Hopefield. The Iron Mountain in turn faced competition from a narrow gauge line, the St. Louis and Southwestern (Cotton Belt), that paralleled to the east the older railroad and passed though Pine Bluff, turning that town into a major transportation hub. The Kansas City Southern ran along Arkansas’s western border, passing in and out of the state on its way south. The company created Mena (Polk County) as home for its central division shops in 1896.

Building railroads in the Ozarks created the most problems. The St. Louis–San Francisco Railway (Frisco) acquired the line running into northeast Arkansas by way of Mammoth Spring (Fulton County) and through Jonesboro (Craighead County) on to Memphis. The Frisco began what was supposed to be a connection to Texas. Starting at Pierce City, Missouri, it reached Fayetteville in 1881. In passing through the town, the railroad encountered the divide between the Boston Mountains and the Springfield Plateau. Slate had to be plowed and picked out, and the resultant alteration to the natural watershed resulted in considerable property damage and many lawsuits. To continue on to Fort Smith, the company had to build a tunnel near Winslow (Washington County).

Railroad magnate Jay Gould, owner of the Iron Mountain as well as most other Texas railroads, strangled the potential competition by buying the Frisco. A number of offshoots followed, as one promoter chartered the Fayetteville and Little Rock in 1886. The Frisco then purchased this line, which terminated at well short of its goal. The Frisco purchased this line, thus terminating it in St. Paul (Madison County), well short of its announced goal. Another venture tied Seligman, Missouri, to Eureka Springs (Carroll County), thus heralding two decades of growth for this spa town. The Eureka Springs line eventually expanded across northern Arkansas, reaching Berryville (Carroll County), Harrison (Boone County), Heber Springs (Cleburne County), and ending in Helena. Like most state railroads, it went through many bankruptcies and name changes, but the most remembered name, the Missouri and North Arkansas, acquired the nickname “Might Never Arrive.” This line faced competition from the Iron Mountain, which built a line up the White River valley through Batesville.

The arrival of a railroad shifted populations dramatically. Left dead were such once-notable towns as Rockport (Hot Spring County), Powhatan (Lawrence County), Jacksonport (Jackson County), and Wittsburg (Cross County). Sawmills and other business operations arose in newly created towns. Short line railroads, often owned by timber companies, sprouted all over the state. Lumbering in particular made use of short lines, spurs, and dummy lines. Once the lumber was cut, the rails were pulled up, and often even the towns disappeared. Every county except Newton County in the remote Ozarks had rail service by 1910. In the 1930s, the Missouri Pacific, successor to the Iron Mountain, created a bus company to supplement its rail passenger service.

The state’s last rail development, an attempt by the Cotton Belt Railroad to construct a St. Francis River valley system in the late 1920s, contributed to that line’s bankruptcy in the Great Depression and subsequent purchase by the Southern Pacific Railroad Co.

Trolley lines existed in Little Rock, Fort Smith, Hot Springs (Garland County), Eureka Springs, and even the small town of Sulphur Rock (Independence County). Trolley lines also connected Hoxie (Lawrence County) and Walnut Ridge (Lawrence County).

The movement away from “good dirt roads” began with arrival of automobiles in the new century. By 1903, some fifty vehicles could be found in Arkansas. By that time, the main streets of some towns were paved in brick, but most remained dirt. The Arkansas Good Roads Association was founded to lobby for progress in 1903, and the legislature authorized special road districts supported by taxes in 1907. The Dollarway Road from Pine Bluff to Little Rock was the first example of a modern road in the state. The state began numbering highways in 1917, and the Ozark Trails Association issued a map showing distances measured between white rings painted on trees and posts. By 1918, Arkansas had 190 miles of hard-surfaced roads.

Roads became the major political issue of the 1920s. By 1923, there were 113,102 vehicles, half of them Fords. The state was cluttered with 527 separate districts, with no coordination and high taxes. After the federal government stopped giving Arkansas any road money, the legislature passed the Harrelson Road Law in 1923, which gave control of roads to the state. The districts then secured the election of Governor John E. Martineau, whose plan consisted of the districts assigning their debts to the state. To pay these debts, Arkansas marketed new state bonds. The new money resulted in some better roads and new bridges, but the Flood of 1927 washed out 511 bridges and ruined miles of road. During the Great Depression, when Arkansas car owners were too poor to continue buying their licenses, the state became unable to pay the interest due on its bonds. When Arkansas halted payment on its bonds in 1933, the state became technically bankrupt. Although the people wanted highways, the politicization of the Arkansas Highway Commission resulted in cronyism, corruption, and fraud.

Aviation history in Arkansas had started with inventor Charles McDermott, who gave his name to the town of Dermott (Chicot County). This amateur scientist received from the U.S. Patent Office a patent for “Improvement in Apparatus for Navigating the Air” in 1872. After the Wright Brothers flew successfully, more than just balloons appeared in Arkansas. Air shows, in which pilots demonstrated their skills, and barn-storming, which often included taking local people up in planes to see the world from the air, preceded the use of airplanes for business and industry. The first recorded flight in Arkansas took place at Fort Smith on May 21, 1910, when pilot James C. “Bud” Mars took off in a Curtiss biplane.

The first mail carried by air in Arkansas (and the second such event in the nation) took place in Fort Smith in 1911. The U.S. Post Office instituted regular airmail service to Arkansas in 1931. World War I greatly furthered development of airplanes and resulted in the training of many pilots. Charles Lindbergh made the first night flight ever over Lake Chicot in 1923.

The burgeoning oil and gas industry hired many pilots to fly executives and petroleum engineers to their oil fields. The agriculture industry also took advantage of aviation. Crop dusting—dropping chemicals to kill boll weevils and other insects—was a luxury when first introduced in the 1920s.

Arkansas was also home to several small airplane manufacturers. In 1930, the short-lived Command-Aire of Little Rock built a plane that won the Cirrus International Air Derby.

World War II through the Modern Era
Air transportation grew enormously in the 1950s as rail travel declined. The federal Civil Aeronautics Board set markets and regulated fares. In order to make air transportation generally available, federal policy at first favored short hauls and encouraged the building of many local municipal airports.

While Arkansas had more than 100 public airports, the most important ones were at El Dorado (Union County), Fort Smith, Harrison (Boone County), Hot Springs, Jonesboro, Mountain Home (Baxter County), Pine Bluff, and Texarkana (Miller County). Construction on the Mena Intermountain Municipal Airport began in 1946; this Polk County airport was later implicated in drug smuggling and the Iran-Contra Scandal.

In 1978, the federal Airline Deregulation Act instituted massive changes to the passenger market. Many small markets had trouble maintaining service, for major carriers focused on a hub system that greatly disadvantaged hub-less Arkansas. Airfreight, which had operated under a similar system, was deregulated in 1977. Little Rock had regular service, but many outside central Arkansas had to commute to Memphis; Tulsa, Oklahoma; or other points outside the state. Population growth in northwest Arkansas resulted in the construction of the Northwest Arkansas National Airport in 1998, but only after years of controversy. Fayetteville’s Drake Field, nestled in the mountains, could not be expanded, and plans to create a regional airport by obliterating the Catholic settlement of Tontitown (Washington County) were met by a storm of local opposition.

Railroads responded to the increased competition from airplanes and automobiles by getting out of the passenger service. The closing of the Missouri and North Arkansas in 1946 significantly reduced access into the Ozarks, and cuts in schedules, maintenance, and upkeep on the remaining carriers followed. In 1970, Congress passed the Rail Passenger Service Act, creating Amtrak. Only one passenger route, along the old Southwest Trail, ran through Arkansas, and that on a limited schedule of three times a week. Deregulation that included abolishing the first federally created regulatory agency, the Interstate Commerce Commission, coincided with the collapse and final abandonment of the Chicago, Rock Island, and Pacific Railroad, the main parts of which were the Memphis and Little Rock Railroad and the Choctaw, Oklahoma and Gulf Railroad that ran through the Ouachitas. In the wake of deregulation, massive mergers resulted in the abandonment of hundreds of miles of track as the familiar corporate names of the past disappeared. By 2000, Arkansas had three Class I (national service) railroads with 2,714 miles of track and twenty-three Class III (local and regional) lines with 891 miles.

Water transportation was modernized greatly when the McClellan-Kerr Navigation System opened in 1971. This $1.2 billion project resulted in seventeen locks and dams that rendered the Arkansas River navigable year-round up to Catoosa near Tulsa. Other public terminals (loading stations) were located at Little Rock, North Little Rock (Pulaski County), Pine Bluff, and Fort Smith. The Army Corps of Engineers also maintained the Ouachita River as far upriver as Camden (Ouachita County). Terminals existed at Camden and Crossett. The Army Corps of Engineers maintained the White River up to Newport (Jackson County). The greatest amount of traffic could be found on the Mississippi River, and terminals were located in Osceola (Mississippi County), West Memphis (Crittenden County), Helena, and McGehee (Desha County).

Automobile travel blossomed after President Dwight D. Eisenhower endorsed a national interstate highway system. In 1956, Congress passed the Federal Aid Highway Act, creating some 41,000 miles of interstate roads. Politics determined that Arkansas would get an east/west connection (Interstate 30 from West Memphis to Little Rock and Interstate 40 from Little Rock to Fort Smith), but the old Southwest Trail route became an interstate only from Little Rock to Texarkana. Interstate 55 passed only through Mississippi and Crittenden counties, and no interstate initially ran from Kansas City, Missouri, south to the Gulf. While interstates tended to follow the most ancient and most traveled routes, Arkansas experienced some problems. Interstate 55, which ran down from St. Louis and crossed the Mississippi River at West Memphis, made only a minor impact on the state. The portion of the old Southwest Trail between St. Louis and Little Rock was unfunded. However, Interstate 30 at Little Rock followed the old route into Texas. The former Memphis to Little Rock corridor became Interstate 40, and it extended to Fort Smith and beyond. The border route from Kansas City was not funded. Eventually, Interstate 49 was built from Alma (Crawford County) up to the Missouri state line, and interstate-quality construction extended from Little Rock to Newport. A new interstate linked Jonesboro to West Memphis.

Interstate roads provided new opportunities for agriculture and businesses. Over fifty per cent of Arkansas goods are moved by truck, and trucking is a major industry for the state. Arkansas became headquarters for major trucking firms such as J. B. Hunt and American (formerly Arkansas) Freightways. The Arkansas Trucking Association, founded in 1932, helped project the industry. In 2000, more than 1,800 regulated carriers operated in Arkansas; by 2014, this had increased to 4,860. In 2013, the trucking industry in Arkansas provided 83,210 jobs, or one out of eleven in the state. Total trucking industry wages paid in Arkansas in 2013 exceeded $3.5 billion, with an average trucking industry salary of $42,334, a figure that includes both drivers and non-drivers.

Though the growth of federal spending in the Depression era spurred some modest road construction, the chief problem facing the state was getting out from under the road debt of the 1930s. It was Governor Sid McMath (1948–1952) who got at least one paved road to every county. McMath’s enemies alleged abuses in the road program as a means to defeat his quest for a third term. The Arkansas Highway Commission, with one member for each of the state’s congressional districts, was the most politically powerful body in the state.

Heavy truck use meant that roads required constant maintenance, and with West Memphis being one of the nation’s busiest truck stops, the damage done to Arkansas interstates led the Arkansas Highway Transportation Department in 2002 to repair sixty percent (380 miles) of state interstate highways.

Recent transportation developments reflect three factors. First, Arkansas’s own products require access to markets. In addition to its agricultural exports—soybeans, rice, and cotton—Arkansas is one of the nation’s leading chicken-producing states. It also sends more than two million tons of sand and gravel out of state each year. Second, Arkansas supports its own homegrown transportation, primarily in trucking but also in locally owned barge lines and short line railroads. Finally, international developments continue to affect transportation patterns. Having a variety of transportation options and being centrally located benefit Arkansas. In cargo capacity, one river barge equals fifteen railcars and sixty trucks. Further, one ton of water-born cargo can be carried 514 miles on one gallon of petroleum fuel, compared to 202 miles by rail and 59 by truck. Rising energy prices plainly affected transportation patterns. The J. B. Hunt trucking firm led the way in 1991 by combining trucks and rail, using intermodal units for transcontinental service.

The Future
Trade between Latin America and the United States was projected to double between 2000 and 2020, and Arkansas is linked with this market in three ways. First, Interstate 30 and its extensions and connections provide a highway route. Second, while all major railroads passing through Arkansas have connections in Texas and Mexico, the Kansas City Southern system has major investments in Mexican railroads. Finally, Arkansas’s waterways are connected to the inland water system that reaches south to Brownsville, Texas.

Arkansas’s location in the lower middle states plainly favored the rise of trucking, and the state’s rail and river connections ensured that transportation jobs would continue to be an important source of employment. Rising gasoline prices have also raised the prospect that Arkansas’s agricultural crops could be converted into fuels, thus linking it further to the rest of the country and the rest of the world.
For additional information:
Bolton, S. Charles. “Missing the Train: Arkansas and the Pacific Railroad, 1848–1862.” Arkansas Historical Quarterly 80 (Autumn 2021): 309–352.

Brown, Carl E. “Improving the Way to the Land of Opportunity: Internal Improvements in Antebellum Arkansas.” PhD diss., University of Memphis, 2012. Online at https://digitalcommons.memphis.edu/etd/549/ (accessed July 6, 2022).

Cleek, Katherine Rose. “‘An Ample Provision for Our Posterity’: Transportation, Ceramic Diversity, and Trade in Historic Arkansas, 1800–1930.” PhD diss., University of Arkansas, 2013. Online at https://scholarworks.uark.edu/etd/764/ (accessed July 6, 2022).

Fair, James R. The North Arkansas Line: The Story of the Missouri & North Arkansas Railroad. Berkeley, CA: Howell-North Books, 1969.

Gooden, O. T. “Transportation.” In Arkansas and Its People: A History, 1541–1930, edited by David Y. Thomas. New York: American Historical Society, Inc., 1930.

Historic Review: Arkansas State Highway Commission and Arkansas State Highway and Transportation Department, 1913–1992. Little Rock: Arkansas State Highway Transportation Department, 1992.

Huddleston, Duane, Walter J. Lemke, and Ted R. Worley. The Butterfield Overland Mail in Arkansas. Little Rock: Arkansas State Archives, 1957.

Hull, Clifton E. Shortline Railroads of Arkansas. Norman: University of Oklahoma Press, 1969.

Moffatt, Walter. “Transportation in Arkansas, 1819–1840.” Arkansas Historical Quarterly 15 (Autumn 1956): 187–201.

Schwartz, Marvin. J. B. Hunt: The Long Haul to Success. Fayetteville: University of Arkansas Press, 1992.

Wallis, Dave. Eight Nine Romeo Poppa: The Story of Arkansas Aviation. Pine Bluff, AR: Delta Echo Press, 2000.


Early beginnings, the "Dollarway"
Main article: Dollarway Road

Travel in Arkansas has come from very humble beginnings. In the late nineteenth century, travelers would follow dirt paths riddled with potholes, and ruts. Bicycles would frequently stick in mud puddles. Trains never became popular in Arkansas, and instead travelers would use horse and buggy to get around the rural parts of state, and bicycles within cities.[2] Across the nation, many cyclists began demanding better roads to use for travel, and these road enthusiasts formed groups to advance their cause. A group of Arkansas cyclists held a good roads convention in Little Rock just before the turn of the century. Arkansas automobile salesmen quickly picked up on the notion that better roads would help their business as well, and became the driving force behind the Arkansas good roads movement.[3] The enterprising salesmen greatly increased the movement's breadth by expanding their scope outside of city streets to farm to market routes, a move that enticed farmers to support the cause. The combination of money from Little Rock salesmen and the large number of farmers in the state made the good roads movement a formidable alliance.[4] At this time, the roads were maintained by a state law that mandated all healthy men of middle age contribute five days of road work (or a monetary equivalent) annually.

Another convention in 1907 formed road districts, but this did not help the situation either. Although the need for improvement was obvious, the citizens had trouble finding funding for their goals.[5] In December 1913, Arkansas formed the "Dollarway", which was the name of a concrete road with asphalt concrete topping. It was opened near Pine Bluff.[6] By 1914, a segment of 23 miles (37 km) was opened, the longest paved stretch in the United States. Today, the route is mostly covered by Highway 365, although some original concrete segments are still visible, and the Dollarway Road portion has been listed on the National Register of Historic Places.[7] 

Chief engineer Alfred Johnson was one of the main proponents of the Interstate System, and construction of interstate highways in Arkansas actually began before the system became official in 1956. The state's original five interstates, Interstate 30, Interstate 40, Interstate 55, Interstate 430, and Interstate 540 still exist in large part today.[23] Arkansas had returned to the forefront of the highway world in 1962 because of the interstate system, just as the Dollarway had made Arkansas a leader decades earlier.[23] 1957 brought the Milum Road Act, which created (at minimum) eleven additional miles of state highways in each of Arkansas' 75 counties. 



Transportation in Arkansas is overseen by the Arkansas Department of Transportation (ArDOT), headquartered in Little Rock. Several main corridors pass through Little Rock, including Interstate 30 (I-30) and I-40 (the nation's 3rd-busiest trucking corridor).[116] Arkansas first designated a state highway system in 1924, and first numbered its roads in 1926. Arkansas had one of the first paved roads, the Dollarway Road, and one of the first members of the Interstate Highway System. The state maintains a large system of state highways today, in addition to eight Interstates and 20 U.S. Routes.

In northeast Arkansas, I-55 travels north from Memphis to Missouri, with a new spur to Jonesboro (I-555). Northwest Arkansas is served by the segment of I-49 from Fort Smith to the beginning of the Bella Vista Bypass. This segment of I-49 currently follows mostly the same route as the former section of I-540 that extended north of I-40.[117] The state also has the 13th largest state highway system in the nation.[118]
The Missouri and Northern Arkansas Railroad

Arkansas is served by 2,750 miles (4,430 km) of railroad track divided among twenty-six railroad companies including three Class I railroads.[119] Freight railroads are concentrated in southeast Arkansas to serve the industries in the region. The Texas Eagle, an Amtrak passenger train, serves five stations in the state Walnut Ridge, Little Rock, Malvern, Arkadelphia, and Texarkana.

Arkansas also benefits from the use of its rivers for commerce. The Mississippi River and Arkansas River are both major rivers. The United States Army Corps of Engineers maintains the McClellan-Kerr Arkansas River Navigation System, allowing barge traffic up the Arkansas River to the Port of Catoosa in Tulsa, Oklahoma.

There are four airports with commercial service: Clinton National Airport (formerly Little Rock National Airport or Adams Field), Northwest Arkansas Regional Airport, Fort Smith Regional Airport, and Texarkana Regional Airport, with dozens of smaller airports in the state.

Public transit and community transport services for the elderly or those with developmental disabilities are provided by agencies such as the Central Arkansas Transit Authority and the Ozark Regional Transit, organizations that are part of the Arkansas Transit Association. 

Aviation

Aviation history in Arkansas includes one pioneer inventor, a few attempts at commercial airplane production, a regional commuter airline, a now-national air freight company, and varying degrees of impact on the state’s communities. By the 1970s, aviation had become essential both for business use and for personal travel.

Balloons and Dirigibles
Balloon ascensions became popular throughout the United States in the 1850s, and balloons also figured in the Civil War, though none were deployed in Arkansas. There was an ascension in Yell County in 1879, and in 1902, balloonist Charles Geary came to Baxter County to perform, along with “Professor” Murgle, who demonstrated the parachute.

Balloon production was apparently limited to the Hot Springs Airship Company of Joel Troutt Rice and John A. Riggs, formed on February 24, 1908. “Joe” Rice had been working airships for more than ten years and had two flying-machine patents to his name by 1901. His first creation, The Arkansas Traveler, was fifty to seventy-five feet long. The steel carriage supported a motor and propeller. At the first test in Hot Springs (Garland County), the hydrogen-filled dirigible rose about ten feet off the ground before gently settling down. Riggs, the company’s treasurer, convinced Rice to move to New York, where Rice created an improved model, the American Eagle. It, however, never flew, and the legal battle that erupted between Rice and Riggs brought all work to a halt.

Early Airplanes
Heavier-than-air aviation began with Charles McDermott, whose patented inventions included a cotton-picking machine (#152,858) in 1874 and an iron wedge (#159,949) in 1875. However, it was #133,046, issued on November 12, 1872, that led to his fame and his nickname, “Flying Machine Charlie.”

McDermott’s invention was formally styled, “Improvement in Apparatus for Navigating the Air.” His machine consisted of some ten or more flaps. The operator, lying prone in the middle, operated the machine with his feet. McDermott exhibited models in Monticello (Drew County) and Little Rock (Pulaski County) before taking his inventions to the Arkansas exhibit at the Centennial Exhibition in Philadelphia in 1876. Whether any of his machines actually flew is uncertain. However, there is a considerable similarity between the Wright brothers’ first machine and that of McDermott, the difference being that the Wrights’ had a gasoline motor.

Arkansas’s first well-documented flight took place in Fort Smith (Sebastian County) on May 21, 1910. James C. “Bud” Mars was the pilot of the Curtiss Bi-Plane that reached an estimated speed of sixty miles per hour. Central Arkansas’s first flight came on April 16, 1911, when pilot Joseph J. Pendergrass flew Pine Bluff (Jefferson County) banker William Henry Langford’s Curtiss biplane at Rob Roy (Jefferson County).

The year 1911 proved to be a bonanza for airplane enthusiasts, with air shows in Little Rock, Hot Springs, and Fort Smith. By that year, airplanes could fly at speeds from fifty to eighty miles an hour and reach altitudes of up to 3,000 feet. The first flight in Fayetteville (Washington County) was organized by Jay Fulbright, a local merchant, and featured Glenn Luther Martin, later the longtime head of Martin Aircraft. The same year saw the first air-mail service, and postcards were printed for the occasion. Fayetteville was also briefly home to Jerome S. Zerbe, who built the “Zerbe Air Sedan.” Featuring a fully enclosed cockpit and an ejector seat, it was tested by Fayetteville’s first test pilot, Tom Flannerty. Unfortunately, the machine would only hop.

World War I pushed aviation forward rapidly. Prior to America’s entry, enterprising young men made their way into English and French units. Arkansan John MacGavock Grider served with the British Eighty-fifth Squadron, dying in action in 1918. His diary, the basis for the book, War Birds, The Diary of an Unknown Aviator, became a bestseller in the 1920s, in part because it embodied elements of the “Lost Generation.”

The entry of the United States into the war in 1917 led to creation of Eberts Field at Lonoke (Lonoke County). Would-be pilots trained on the Curtiss JN4, commonly called a “Jenny.” Among the prominent Arkansans who saw service were Field Kindley, who was born near Pea Ridge (Benton County), and Wendell Archibald Robertson, who ranked ninth in “kills” among American fighter pilots. Born in Oklahoma, Robertson grew up in Fort Smith.

The war’s end created a surplus of pilots. Many turned to barnstorming, a sort of miniature air show that often included wing-walking and other stunts. County fairs were good opportunities for flight, and local farmers reveled at the chance to take a ride over their farms and see them from the air. Pilots also turned to crop-dusting, an especially important part of the war against the destructive boll weevil, which involved dropping arsenic from sacks on the cotton fields below. One of these gypsy pilots was Charles Lindbergh, whose first night flight, commemorated by an obelisk at Lake Village (Chicot County), took place over Lake Chicot in April 1923.

Early aviation offered opportunities for women. In 1912, Katherine Stinson, who was living at the time in Pine Bluff, became the fourth woman in America to get a pilot’s license. Forthwith, she appeared in England and then Japan. In the 1920s, Louise McPhetridge Thaden from Bentonville (Benton County) attained national recognition. Besides winning the Women’s Air Derby in 1929, she and co-pilot Blanche Noyes won the prestigious Bendix Trophy against male competition in 1936, flying from New York to Los Angeles in just under fifteen hours. The first known African American to receive Airman Certification Notification (a pilot’s license) was Pickens W. Black, a Jackson County planter from Blackville. His student pilot certification arrived on January 7, 1932, and his private pilot license on November 30, 1933. His last license was issued in 1958. Black liked to fly low over the cotton fields in the fall and terrify the cotton pickers.

As air traffic grew and commercial uses developed, it became necessary to create formal airfields. Amendment 13 to the Arkansas constitution authorized funding such projects. Little Rock built the first one in 1926 and received national attention when that year’s National Elimination Balloon and Aeroplane Races were held there on April 29–30. Pine Bluff followed, opening Toney Field in 1927. Fort Smith’s Alexander Field opened in 1927. Pilot Floyd H. Muncie, who worked for Ozark Airways and had more than 2,000 hours in the air, offered instruction. In 1928, Arkansas Air Tours began, supported by local enthusiasts who organized flying clubs.

Airmail service came to Little Rock on June 19, 1931, when American Airlines vice president Edward Vernon Rickenbacker took a sack of mail and loaded it on the fourteen-passenger tri-motor airplane. On September 8, 1935, the Arkansas Gazette complained that the two daily deliveries had stopped due to the field being too small. The newspaper hoped that the Works Progress Administration (WPA) might be able to address the problem, which it did by building the terminal.

Another component of Arkansas aviation was the creation in 1925 of the 154th Observation Squadron as part of the Arkansas National Guard. State Auditor James Carroll Cone, a World War I pilot, was a major proponent, and two years later, the squadron performed yeoman service during the Flood of 1927 in locating refugees, reporting levee breaks, and dropping medicines and supplies. They also carried the Batesville (Independence County) mail to Little Rock. Their aerial photographs documented conditions far better than land-based pictures. Afterward, the entire squadron received a peacetime citation from the secretary of war. National Guard pilot George Geyer Adams, who was killed when a propeller assembly exploded, was honored on November 11, 1941, when the Little Rock municipal airport was named Adams Field.

Advances in Aviation
Just as Arkansas briefly boasted of an automobile manufactory, the Climber, so too was the state home to airplane companies. The best known began as the Arkansas Aircraft Company before reorganizing as Command-Aire. Robert B. Snowden headed up the firm, and Little Rocket, its test plane, won the Cirrus International Air Derby in 1930. More than 300 aircraft were sold, but the Depression drove the company out of business. A more obscure aviation business operated out of Williford (Sharp County). Sometime early in the century, Luther Kellett ordered an airplane, assembled it, and took off from a local field. During the late 1920s, he opened a factory about which nothing is known.

Despite the hardships of the Great Depression, aviation in Arkansas continued to advance. The New Deal financed building airports through the Civil Works Program. In order to meet federal requirements, the airport in Jonesboro (Craighead County) was owned by City Water and Light, an improvement district, until 1977. Selling hay off the unused areas more than paid for expenses. Charles M. Taylor, a member of the “Blue Devils” exhibition team from the 154th Squadron, became the airport supervisor for the state of Arkansas in 1933. His work included cataloging all the forty-seven airports then in the state and getting each town to paint its name on rooftops with arrows marking the way to local airfields.

One important pilot of the 1930s was Frank Glasgow Tinker Jr. from DeWitt (Arkansas County). A graduate of the U.S. Naval Academy in 1933 who then enlisted in the Army Air Corps, Tinker joined the Spanish Republican air force during Spain’s civil war, shooting down eight enemy planes and authoring a book, Some Still Live (Wings of War).

One other product of the 1930s was the founding of the Central Flying Service in Little Rock in 1939 by Claud Holbert and Ed Garbacz. The incentive for creating this commercial aircraft firm was the pre-war development of the federally funded Civil Pilot Training Program (CPTP) designed to turn civilians into pilots after a nine-week course. Fayetteville in 1936 had approved a $20,000 bond issue to create a city airport; CPTP began there in 1939. The first class of twenty included one woman, Maurice Ash, who became the first female to fly solo over the field. Raymond J. Ellis took over the program in 1940, founding Fayetteville Flying Services.

Pilot training figured prominently during World War II. During the war, seven bases opened: Walnut Ridge Army Flying School in Lawrence County, Grider Field at Pine Bluff, and others at Helena (Phillips County), Camden (Ouachita County), Stuttgart (Arkansas County), Blytheville (Mississippi County), and Newport (Jackson County). A total of 4,641 pilots trained at Walnut Ridge (Lawrence County) alone, and reaction to their extensive drinking habits resulted in Craighead County’s going dry during the war. Arkansas State College (now Arkansas State University) in Jonesboro sported a hangar and provided training to pilots; one graduate was Paul (Pete) Coughlin, who became nationally famous as the “Sergeant York of the Air” after he and his observer captured an estimated 150 prisoners during the Allied landing at Scoletti, Sicily. Fourteen Arkansans became “aces” (pilots with five or more “kills”), the most famous being Pierce McKennon. The Ninety-ninth Fighter Squadron (subsequently part of the Seventy-ninth Fighter Group) was the belated segregated air force established in 1939. Trained at Tuskegee, Alabama, and commonly called the Tuskegee Airmen, this elite group included three Arkansans: Herbert V. A. “Bud” Clark from Pine Bluff, Woodrow W. Crockett from Texarkana (Miller County), and Milton P. Crenchaw from Little Rock.

Wartime service could have political benefits. Nathan Gordon of Morrilton (Conway County), whose plane was named The Arkansas Traveler and sported a Razorback hog on the nose, won the Congressional Medal of Honor for his rescuing of downed crewpersons. In 1947, he was elected lieutenant governor, holding that office for twenty years.

Airports and Industry
The end of the war left some Arkansas communities with extensive airfields. The Walnut Ridge Army Flying School was chosen to serve as a airplane graveyard, and newly finished airplanes were flown in and converted into scrap. A different scenario unfolded at Fayetteville, where the municipal airport, named Drake Field in 1949, predated the war. Raymond J. Ellis’s Central Air Transport in 1946 flew 5,000 baby chickens for John Tyson from Joplin, Missouri, to Springdale (Washington County). Ellis started the state’s first commuter service (to Little Rock) in 1946. South Central Air Transport (SCAT) was but the first of his efforts; Scheduled Skyways, founded in 1953, was the most enduring. In 1954, Central Airlines came to Fayetteville, eventually merging with Frontier Airlines.

Technological developments resulted in bigger airplanes that needed longer runways. This often posed problems for airports without growing space. For instance, Drake Field’s runway was enlarged three times. However, efforts to create a regional field proved to be controversial. A 1965 study for the state urged creating a regional airport, but it took decades to agree on a site. One proposed solution, placing a new airport at Tontitown (Washington County), threatened to wipe out this Italian colony, along with its vineyards. Eventually, a remote site in Benton County became the home of what is now the Northwest Arkansas National Airport, opening on November 1, 1998. It was only the third commercial airport opened in Arkansas in the preceding twenty-five years.

Little Rock also experienced growing pains, in part because the airport site sat atop a major prehistoric village. There was also discontent with the name Adams Field, the use of which declined significantly. The physical limitations were reflected when an Arkansas-created company, Federal Express, founded in 1971, moved to Memphis in 1973 because of its superior airport facilities.

Aviation issues in government were handled by the Arkansas Aeronautical Commission. However, much political feuding surrounded this body until, in 1969, Edward W. “Eddie” Holland, one of Winthrop Rockefeller’s pilots, took over as head. Holland served until 1985 and, in the early years, was able to get increased state and federal aid for airport construction, with ten new airports being added, giving Arkansas a total of eighty-six by 1983. Approximately 100 existed in 2007.

With the start of the Cold War, Arkansas became home to two air force bases. Eaker Air Force Base was located outside of Blytheville in northeastern Arkansas; it closed in 1992. Little Rock Air Force Base (LFAFB) opened in 1955 and served as home to the Strategic Air Command. It has survived base closings, and the 188th Fighter Wing of the Air National Guard at Fort Smith successfully appealed its shutdown.

Missiles, too, were present in Arkansas in various forms. William L. Ripley, a North Little Rock (Pulaski County) science teacher, organized the Arkansas Amateur Rocket Society in the fall of 1957. On a much larger scale, in the 1960s, silos for Titan II missiles—intercontinental ballistic missiles with nuclear warheads—were established in Arkansas; the state became the site of the most publicized disaster in the history of the program when a Titan II missile exploded in its launch duct in 1980, killing one man and destroying the complex. Missiles were also manufactured in Arkansas at Lockheed Martin’s Camden plant. In 2006, Industryweek included the plant as one of the ten best in the United States.

Following the deregulation of passenger air service in the 1970s, the nation’s major carriers concentrated on their core markets (called hubs). Cutthroat competition ended the lives of virtually every American carrier company in less than twenty years. For would-be Arkansas travelers, an extended automobile trip to Memphis, Dallas, Tulsa, or Little Rock became necessary to secure a flight that often entailed many changes of planes in order to reach the desired destination. Things have not much improved in the twenty-first century.

Little Rock became home to Dassault-Falcon Jet Corporation, a major producer of business airplanes. The first factory opened in 1975 and, by 2007, employed more than 1,500 workers. The actual airplanes are made in France and then flown to Little Rock where, in the completion phase, the interiors are installed.

Historical Sites
Arkansas is home to many historic aviation-related sites. Still in existence is the first hangar for Adams Field. Built by Transcontinental Air at Waynoka, Oklahoma, in 1929, the hangar was purchased, dismantled, and then reconstructed at Adams Field in 1937. Other old hangars are at Drake Field in Fayetteville. Drake is also home to the Arkansas Air Museum and the Ozark Military Museum, and Eureka Springs has the Aviation Cadet Museum at Silver Wings Field. The Southwestern Proving Ground outside Hope (Hempstead County) was placed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1999. Built prior to World War II, it was the third-longest runway in the United States when built. Other museums include the Fort Smith Air Museum and the Walnut Ridge Army Flying School Museum.

Railroads

In the mid-nineteenth century, the newly created state of Arkansas needed an efficient means of transportation to speed its development. Railroads were constructed in order to get goods to markets elsewhere and to bring in new technologies, as well as people to work in and populate the state.

The construction of railroads had a significant impact on the state, creating towns where none had existed while all but eliminating others due to their lack of ready rail access. Many of the cities and towns in the state were named after prominent railroad executives who influenced, and in some cases were essential to, these communities’ development. While very little passenger service still exists, many of the same routes are used to transport a wide variety of goods throughout the state and beyond.

Louisiana Purchase through Early Statehood
As early as 1835, plans were being made for the construction of railroads in the future state of Arkansas. A group led by Roswell Beebe was planning surveys that had been ordered by the U.S. Department of War for a railroad running from Cairo, Illinois, to Fulton (Hempstead County). These plans eventually resulted in the Cairo and Fulton Railroad, and Beebe became the railroad’s first president.

The Mississippi, Ouachita and Red River Railroad, intended as a connection between the Mississippi River and Dooley’s Ferry on the Red River, was incorporated on August 12, 1852, and is considered the oldest railroad in the state; however, serious construction did not begin on this route until after 1875, and then under another name. The first actual railroad in Arkansas was laid from what is now West Memphis (Crittenden County) to Madison (St. Francis County), which is on the St. Francis River, in 1858. This was the first section of what would become the Memphis and Little Rock Railroad, and it was the only functioning railroad completed by the end of the decade.

During the 1850s, railroad companies were created, sold, and resold due to lack of funding or manipulation of the market. Names changed often, but tracks were planned spanning out from Little Rock (Pulaski County) to Memphis, Tennessee; Fort Smith (Sebastian County); and Helena (Phillips County). Early plans for a line from Little Rock to Helena and to now-defunct Napoleon (Desha County), both on the Mississippi River, were stalled when business interests in Little Rock and Memphis sapped funds intended for these lines instead to build the Memphis and Little Rock Railroad. In retaliation, Masons in Helena withdrew their support of St. Johns’ College in Little Rock.

At the end of the decade, many of the plans that were made remained just that—plans—for the next few years. The Civil War was on the horizon, and it not only delayed further construction of railroads, but it also necessitated the rebuilding and repair of what little had already been built.

Civil War through Reconstruction
By the time Arkansas seceded from the Union on May 6, 1861, only the Memphis and Little Rock Railroad’s thirty-eight miles of track from Hopefield (later West Memphis) to Madison were complete and operational. By 1862, the section of the Memphis and Little Rock Railroad from the bank of the Arkansas River opposite Little Rock to DeValls Bluff (Prairie County) on the White River was completed. This was the only significant railroad construction to take place during the war. By 1865, the war had officially ended in the region, although major military operations in the state had ceased some time before.

In 1866, a contract was granted to former Confederate general Nathan Bedford Forrest and to C. C. McCreanor for the purpose of constructing the final leg of the Memphis and Little Rock Railroad from the White River to the St. Francis River. The camp they established near the St. Francis River for this purpose eventually became the town of Forrest City (St. Francis County), named after the general. This was the first project of many in a resurgence of railroad planning and construction following the war.

In July 1868, Powell Clayton became the new Reconstruction governor of Arkansas. Shortly after taking office, he approved legislation that allowed for the issuance of government-backed bonds for the purpose of financing railroad construction. The bill also provided for the establishment of a railroad commission, which would include on its panel the governor and the secretary of state; no such commission would actually exist, however, for another thirty years.

On April 12, 1869, what had been known as the Fort Smith Branch of the Cairo and Fulton Railroad had its charter renewed and became known as the Little Rock and Fort Smith Railroad. Construction of this line began on March 20, 1869, on the north side of the Arkansas River. A freight yard and depot were also established there, roughly the area of present-day 4th and Poplar streets in downtown North Little Rock (Pulaski County), which was then the unincorporated community of Argenta. On May 28, 1870, the Cairo and Fulton Railroad began construction of its main line at modern-day 11th and Main streets in North Little Rock. With these lines and the Memphis and Little Rock just to the east, the early seeds of a major railroad center in North Little Rock were planted.

By 1871, eighty-six railroads had been chartered in Arkansas, but only 271 miles of track had been completed. The Little Rock and Fort Smith Railroad was in financial difficulty. Bonds sold by the railroad to raise funds in 1869 had become almost worthless, and in March 1871, a strike broke out among workers near Ozark (Franklin County) because they had not been paid in several months. By the end of the year, the railroad was taken over by the bondholders, who were intent on salvaging their investment. In response to these and other delays, the Arkansas General Assembly passed legislation mandating that all railroads that had received state aid and were presently under construction should complete one-quarter of their lines within two years and one-half of their lines within three years.

Relieving some of the anxiety that inspired the legislature’s mandate, on August 21, 1871, the Memphis and Little Rock Railroad, advertising service between Memphis and Argenta, was opened. Tracks had been laid for the entire route, but the seventeen miles of track between Brinkley (Monroe County) and DeValls Bluff were not used until a bridge was completed over the White River later in the decade. Until then, connections were made by steamboat or stagecoach from Clarendon (Monroe County) to DeValls Bluff.

The Cairo and Fulton had been running two separate divisions, one north of the Arkansas River and one south. A ferry was the only means of transferring cargo and passengers from one line to the other, but in 1872, the railroad’s leadership announced the beginning of construction on what would become the Baring Cross Bridge, the first bridge to span the Arkansas River in the area. The bridge was completed on December 21, 1873. Though it washed away in the Flood of 1927, it was rebuilt in 1928. Today, it is still in regular use by both Amtrak and Union Pacific.

The Little Rock and Fort Smith and the Cairo and Fulton railroads were both completed in 1874. By May of that year, 440 miles of track had been laid in Arkansas.

On June 2, 1874, articles of consolidation were filed to combine the St. Louis and Iron Mountain (formerly the Cairo and Fulton of Missouri) and the Cairo and Fulton of Arkansas to create the St. Louis, Iron Mountain and Southern Railroad. On December 9, 1874, the Little Rock and Fort Smith Railroad was reorganized as the Little Rock and Fort Smith Railway.

Post Reconstruction through the Gilded Age
The most significant growth in railroad construction up to that time in Arkansas occurred after Reconstruction. Between 1874 and 1880, the miles of track constructed in the state nearly doubled, from 440 to 859. This expansion continued through the end of the decade and spurred the growth of some industries, such as lumber and mining, while causing a decline in others, such as cotton, due to the influx of cheaper textile goods from the Northeast. After 1880, steamboat travel also experienced declines in favor of railroads’ more flexible form of transporting goods and passengers.

In 1876, James G. Blaine, then speaker of the U.S. House of Representatives and a representative from Maine, sought the Republican nomination for president. His attempt was thwarted, however, when it was discovered that he had acquired Little Rock and Fort Smith Railroad bonds and quickly sold them to investors at inflated prices. He was accused of using his position to force the companies to buy the bonds. An investigation into the incident was begun by the House of Representatives but ended upon Blaine’s resignation as representative and appointment by the governor of Maine to the U.S. Senate, an act that removed Blaine from the House’s jurisdiction. The incident is believed to have caused Blaine to lose the Republican nomination for president then and again four years later. When Blaine was finally able to earn the Republican nomination on his third attempt, he was defeated in the general election when reform Republicans supported the Democrat, Grover Cleveland, in the presidential election of 1884.

In 1873, German chancellor Otto Von Bismarck began an anti-Catholic policy known as Kulturkampf, or “culture struggle,” which sparked the emigration of large numbers of German Catholics from the country. German immigrants to the United States initially settled in Pennsylvania and elsewhere in the north and northeast. The Little Rock and Fort Smith Railway began to seek these immigrants as railroad employees by enticing them with land grants and housing. The railroad made a deal with the Diocese of Little Rock to sell land to the immigrants; the railroads were then rich in land after the federal government gave them so much to encourage development. In 1877, a convention of the Southern and Western Immigration Association met in Little Rock to showcase Arkansas as a destination for those immigrants. Shortly afterward, in 1878, the St. Joseph’s Colony was established with land in Conway, Faulkner, and Pope counties along the rail line. The influence of this and other settlements of German and Swiss immigrants can still be seen in industries such as the state’s wine industry. It is evidenced architecturally as well as culturally in the rural Catholic churches that still dot these areas along the Arkansas River Valley, where the line to Fort Smith was built.

While initial rail routes were built with some consideration for access to navigable waterways, the trend after 1880 reflected a decline in the use of steamboats in favor of the more versatile railroads. This had the effect of creating new towns and cities along the rail lines where previously waterway access had been necessary for sustaining them.

New York financier Jay Gould acquired the St. Louis, Iron Mountain and Southern Railway for $2 million in 1881. In 1882, Gould purchased the Little Rock and Fort Smith Railway, adding it to the St. Louis, Iron Mountain and Southern Railway to form the largest railroad in Arkansas at the time. Gould’s ownership of the railroad was through the Missouri Pacific, which he had purchased in 1879. Missouri Pacific owned a controlling share of the stock in the Iron Mountain system by 1881 through an exchange of stock, and in another fifteen years, after Gould’s death in 1892, it would retain sole ownership, although the two railroads did not come under the same company name until 1917.

Gould’s competition with the Texas and St. Louis (later the St. Louis and Southwestern Railway) under owner James W. Paramore, a St. Louis cotton buyer, led to Paramore’s building an alternate route from Texarkana (Miller County) to St. Louis via Camden (Ouachita County), Pine Bluff (Jefferson County), Clarendon, and Jonesboro (Craighead County). At a point northeast of Jonesboro, where the tracks from the two railroads intersected, the town of Paragould emerged, which was named by combining the two men’s names. The Texas and St. Louis was created primarily to transport cotton and thus was also known as the Cotton Belt railroad.

Paramore hired surveyor Samuel W. Fordyce to locate the route of the railroad, and the tracks for the Texas and St. Louis were laid from Gatesville, Texas, to Birds Point, Missouri, by 1883. Fordyce later became the president of the railroad, and the town of Fordyce (Dallas County), as well as the Fordyce Bathhouse, which he built in Hot Springs (Garland County), are named for him.

In Missouri, the Southwest Branch of the Pacific Railroad was acquired by the St. Louis–San Francisco Railway (Frisco) in 1876. The company created the St. Louis, Arkansas, and Texas Railway, which had built 188 miles of track from Monett, Missouri, to Brentwood (Washington County) by 1881 and additional track to Fort Smith by 1882.  The presence of the Frisco in northwest Arkansas allowed for the growth of Rogers (Benton County)—named for Captain Charles Warrington Rogers, general manager of the Frisco—from a single cabin in March 1881 to a fully incorporated town by June of the same year. The Frisco route bypassed the older town of Bentonville (Benton County). Because of the railroad, for many years afterward Rogers continued to be the more prosperous of the two cities, even though Bentonville was the county seat. After the Frisco was acquired by Burlington Northern in 1980, these rails became the property of the Arkansas & Missouri Railroad, which began freight operations in 1986 and passenger service in 1990.

The Arkansas Railroad Commission was created in 1899. It was made up of the governor, attorney general, state auditor, secretary of state, state treasurer, commissioner of agriculture, and commissioner of state lands. The commission was charged with overseeing the development and activities of the railroad industry in the state. Its primary task was to set rates on intrastate freight shipments

The first charter issued by the new commission for the construction of a railroad was granted to the St. Louis and North Arkansas Railroad on May 17, 1899, to build the line that would link Eureka Springs to Harrison. The line was completed by 1901, but went out of business in 1906.

Early Twentieth Century
By the end of the nineteenth century, more than 3,360 miles of track were in use in Arkansas. The main routes in the state had been established prior to the turn of the century, but many branch or spur routes were also developed, providing passenger and freight service to towns and cities off the main routes. Many smaller short line or local railroads existed for specific purposes, some only for transporting raw materials from where they were being mined or harvested, others to provide passenger service to a main line or another nearby community. It was during the early part of the twentieth century that railroads would see their peak, particularly for passengers.

In 1898, the Choctaw, Oklahoma, and Gulf Railroad bought the Little Rock and Memphis Railroad, beginning a process of networked railroads which, in 1904 and 1905, came to be dominated by the Chicago, Rock Island, and Pacific Railroad, generally known as the Rock Island line. Until its bankruptcy in March 1980, the Rock Island line was a major player in the Arkansas railroad scene.

The former St. Louis and North Arkansas Railroad was reorganized on August 4, 1906, into the Missouri and North Arkansas Railroad. Almost immediately, the railroad contracted to begin building tracks that would eventually connect the railroad to Helena, thus providing a connection between Helena and Kansas City, through agreements with other companies owning tracks in Missouri. The railroad made the connection to Helena by 1909, but the project never had financial success. A major blow came on August 5, 1914, when a Missouri and North Arkansas motor car collided with a Kansas City Southern train south of Joplin, Missouri, killing forty-two people. The two railroads split the responsibility for compensating the families involved. Another blow came in December 1917 when the federal government nationalized most railroads during World War I (until 1920) and paid the Missouri and North Arkansas employees based on a flat rate that was being paid across the country. This rate was much greater than that enjoyed by the employees prior to the government takeover, but the company was returned to private control later that year, at which time their pay was returned to its previous level. As a result of the pay reduction, on February 1, 1921, the railroad employees went on strike. The strike attracted national attention and was considered one of the longest railroad strikes in U.S. history, ending in May 1922 after fifteen months and much violence. Other factors, such as the topography of the land and absentee ownership and management of the company, contributed to its struggles and eventual demise.

By 1927, the St. Louis-San Francisco Railway Company (Frisco) operated just over 700 miles of track in Arkansas, with an assessed value of almost $12 million. The Missouri Pacific operated 1,810 miles of track in Arkansas by that year, representing more than thirty-five percent of the state’s total mileage, with an assessed value of almost $39 million. The Rock Island operated 705 miles of track in Arkansas with an assessed value of almost $12 million. The Missouri and North Arkansas Railroad was in receivership by 1927. It was foreclosed upon, sold in 1935 for $350,000, and renamed the Missouri and Arkansas Railway.

The last railroad development in the state was attempted in the late 1920s by the Cotton Belt, with its efforts to create a rail system in the St. Francis River valley. The project was not successful and eventually led to the bankruptcy and sale of the railroad to the Southern Pacific in 1932. (It was in receivership from 1932 to 1947.)

World War II through the Modern Era
By 1941, approximately 4,700 miles of railroad track were in use in Arkansas. Although the railroads remained important to industry and shipping, passenger service began to decline with the increasing popularity of the automobile. In 1956, Congress passed the Federal Aid Highway Act, creating some 41,000 miles of interstate roads, which rapidly became more popular than train travel. Increased activity of commercial airlines also reduced the use of rail passenger service.

Interstates had been built and were now in use across the country. Amtrak was created in 1970 and officially took over most interstate passenger rail service in the United States on May 1, 1971. Smaller mergers and acquisitions from the prior eras now increased as companies continued to adjust to the changing transportation market. Today, of the many larger carriers that crisscrossed the state, the Union Pacific controls the majority of the main routes connecting Arkansas to the rest of the world by rail. The lone remaining connection to national rail passenger service is Amtrak’s Texas Eagle, running from Chicago to Dallas, San Antonio, and eventually Los Angeles, with Arkansas stops in Walnut Ridge (Lawrence County), Little Rock, Malvern (Hot Spring County), Arkadelphia (Clark County), and Texarkana, utilizing Union Pacific track.

Tourist rail developed in the form of the Scott and Bearskin Lake Railroad in Scott (Pulaski and Lonoke Counties), created as an attraction for the then privately owned Plantation Museum there. Robert Dortch, who was responsible for creating the Scott and Bearskin Lake Railroad, died in 1978, and shortly after, his son, Robert Dortch Jr., closed the railroad, moving the steam engine and tracks to Eureka Springs and utilizing the remaining track from the original Eureka Springs Railway to create a passenger service, the Eureka Springs and North Arkansas Railroad, in 1981.

In 1996, the Union Pacific Railroad, which had acquired the Missouri Pacific in 1982, merged with the Southern Pacific (Cotton Belt). With that merger, the main lines that had crisscrossed the state under various company names and logos had now, with minor exception, become one.

Arkansas Department of Transportation statistics for 2005 show twenty-five railroads operating on 2,730 miles of track. Of that number, fifteen are considered local or short line railroads. In 2003, over twenty-four million tons of products originating in Arkansas were transported by rail. These items included non-metallic minerals, primary metal products, glass and stone products, and lumber products, among others. As of 2005, Arkansas’s twenty-five railroads tied for ninth in the nation in the number of railroads operating within a state.

 Planes, Trains and Automobiles: Transportation History in The Natural State
Friday, April 18, 2003

Kerry Kraus, travel writer
Arkansas Tourism

Fascination with different modes of transportation is something that's been around for centuries -- and something that often starts in early childhood and lasts a lifetime. The Arkansas Air Museum, the Arkansas & Missouri Railroad and the Museum of Automobiles entertain and educate those passionate about the machines that move society.

Taking to the Skies

Dec. 17, 2003 will mark the 100-year anniversary of Orville Wright's first successful flight in a craft heavier than air. Paying homage to this historic event and the results that followed is the Arkansas Air Museum in Fayetteville. While the focus of the museum is the Golden Age of Aviation (1928-1940), all eras are represented, and, because most of the aircraft are privately owned, the exhibits change regularly.

Below are examples of the planes on display (as many as 14) at the Arkansas Air Museum.

    Royal Aircraft Factory S.E. 5A Replica -- One of the most famous of the British fighters of World War I. The S.E. 5A., along with its more famous counterpart, the Sopwith Camel, was responsible for downing many German aircraft. Very few of the originals are left, so most now seen are either full-scale or two-thirds replicas, such as the one on display here.
    Howard DGA 18K -- Only about 75 or so of these metal and fabric planes were built, making this one of the rarest planes at the museum. This two-place mono-wing Howard was one of several trainers stationed in Fayetteville during World War II. One of the few surviving DGA-18Ks, it was flown from late 1941 until March 1943 as a secondary trainer for pilots in the 305th College Training Detachment. Cadets would receive primary training in the Piper J-3 Cub, then advance to the Howard. Fayetteville Flying Service made extensive use of the DGA-18K, owning four during the 1940s. Trivia fact: DGA stands for "Darn Good Airplane."

The museum also features displays depicting the history of aviation in Arkansas. Special events take place throughout the year, the largest being Airfest, which is held annually in June. It includes an air show, a fly-in and special exhibits.

The Iron Horse

Rail transportation began in Great Britain but soon spread across the Atlantic to America, where, as people moved Westward, the steam engine became the preferred method of travel. Today the romance of riding the rails draws people of all ages to the few historic railroads still in operation. One such is the Arkansas & Missouri Railroad in northwest Arkansas.

Two trips are offered on this passenger train that features restored turn-of-the-century cars with inlaid mahogany interiors. The longest ride is Springdale to Van Buren, a 134-mile round-trip. A highlight of this excursion is a two-and-a-half hour visit to historic downtown Van Buren. The shopping district has more than 80 stores of all varieties and several restaurants. The Van Buren to Winslow tour is a 70-mile round-trip through the Ozark Mountains, crossing high wooden trestles and passing through the Winslow tunnel. Both trips have knowledgeable guides who entertain passengers with details of the area. Several specialty trips are offered throughout the year, such as murder mystery and fall foliage excursions. 

Henry Ford's Mission

When Ford Motor Company was incorporated in 1903, Henry Ford proclaimed, "I will build a car for the great multitude." Soon thereafter, Ford's Model T heralded the beginning of the Motor Age, and today travel by automobile is the most popular mode of transportation in America.

Vehicles have changed dramatically since the early 1900s, and The Museum of Automobiles, which sits atop Petit Jean Mountain and has a 22,500-square-foot display area, is a great place to track these advances. It was originally named the Rockefeller Museum because it housed the collection of antique vehicles owned by the late Arkansas Governor, Winthrop Rockefeller. After his death, the collection was sold. A non-profit group purchased several of Rockefeller's autos, added others to it, and in 1976 reopened under its current name. And, like the Arkansas Air Museum, the more than 50 vehicles on display at the Museum of Automobiles are changed on a regular basis, so there is always something new for visitors to see.

The newest donation to the permanent collection is a 1939 Ford Standard Tudor. The Standard Tudor, like all 1939 standard models, reflected 1938 deluxe styling, and, when new, cost $680. This well-restored example is equipped with the optional 85 hp V-8 engine.

The oldest car in the museum is a 1904 Oldsmobile French Front which truly looks like a horseless carriage. Other eye-catching autos on display include the pink 1937 Packard Town Car once owned by Mae West and a 1923 Climber Touring Car, which represents Little Rock's brief foray into the auto manufacturing industry. Only two are known to still be in existence, both of which are at the museum, though only one is on display. Perhaps the most attention-getting vehicle in the group is the 1914 Creators Popcorn Wagon. Fully restored, the bright red wagon with shiny chrome and brass stirs visions of the genteel early 1900s. From wagons like this vendors traveled throughout cities selling popcorn, peanuts and hot dogs.

Other exhibits at the museum include vintage motorcycles, old license plates and antique arcade machines. An old-fashioned ice cream parlor located on the lower level is open during the summer months. The museum is open 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. year-round, but closed on Christmas Day. 