IN GENERAL

yorgo, i’d hope that i could come to you for one 30-ish minute meeting a week, and have you function like the “math help center” i work at. i’ll ask you about stumbling blocks, dense concepts, etc., and you’d give me some general pointers, not working the damn problem for me (like some of these kids are asking for these days has me like). if i'm doing fine, we can just play go. 

I’d pledge the 2.5 hours a week i’d ordinarily spend in class, plus the 6 hours median recommended per week. I’ll document my hours well, making clear what im working on in the week in a little text document i’ll email you once a week. i will begin with a schedule, and stick closely by the hours per week and 1/2 math 1/2 applied math coding, but give myself a good bit of wiggle room for content pace, veering if things seem simpler or more complex (likelier) as the semester progresses. 


ADVANCED COMBINATORICS

look suth gave me this big old book. how’s about i put it to good use, spend 2.5 months doing quick maths. A couple programming applications i’d want to do in addition to a bunch of math

Suth took a semester to cover about 3.5 chapters of this book. I’ll lay out plans for 4.5 i could get to, finishing it (except the appendix just a Linear primer might be a nice beach read) but it comes down to how much i’m able to get done. 

THE OTHER HALF (AND I’LL REFRESH PARTS A AND B) OF GRAPH THEORY
	eulerian walks, gen. intuition    (i did these with suthy so this would be quick refresh)
	trees                            ALO (and then a good deal of applied Manim and functional programming)
	isomorphism and planarity
	digraphs
	coloring
	graphs and matrices
COMBINATORIAL DESIGNS
	latin squares
	block designs
	construction and resolvability of designs
	affine and projective planes
	codes and designs
ORDERED SETS
	partial ordering
	linear extensions and chains
	lattices
	boolean algebras
	mobius functions
	products of orderings
ENUMERATION UNDER GROUP ACTION
	permutation groups
	groups acting on sets
	polya's enumeration theorem
KNOT THEORY
	
	
MATCHING AND OPTIMIZATION           (A LOT OF THIS WILL BE COVERED IN ALGORITHMS)
	matching theory
	the greedy algorithm
	network flows
	flows, connectivity, and matching




MANIM: Python-based DSL used primarily for making cool math animations. Could be a fun context to learn it, and if im teaching myself creating educational materials would be helpful in a few ways. 




HASKELL OR AGDA: I’d be casually implementing concepts throughout, and go hog that last month or so, going at the Sawada algorithm, nabbing a clutch UR in w the SP










RECREATIONAL MATHEMATICS / COMBINATORIC GAME THEORY

Textbook could be Winning Ways
I could pull questions from Lessons in Play 
And I could do a final project analyzing those general Nim variants
Other things I want to do here in Conway-Land:
	prove Conway criterion w manim

